Why.
Hello Ladies and gentlemen,
this episode of the podcast is brought to you by audible.
Audible is the Internet's leading provider of digital audio entertainment as far
as audio books,
um,
radio broadcast lectures,
comedy specials.
Basically they have no peer.
There is no one like audible,
audible rules.
Uh,
it is my favorite place to download audio books.
They have over 150,000 titles.
So essentially you could probably do it until the day you die if you really
thought about it.
Like,
how many books do you read in your life?
Do you really,
do you think you read a higher 50,000 bucks?
Probably not,
but you could have 150,000 books read to you and it's much less effort and you
can help people you read when you're not really reading.
You know what I mean?
It's like you can read while doing other shit.
And that's the cool thing about audio books.
If you're commuting,
if you're on a plane,
I have stopped in my driveway and listened to a book for like an extra 15,
20 minutes.
Um,
why I don't make the best decisions in this life,
but I enjoy it.
I really enjoy audible too.
If you go to audible.com,
forward slash jail,
you can get a free audio book and you can get a month,
a free month of audible service.
It is really an excellent,
excellent resource when it comes to audio books.
Um,
if I could recommend one to you,
hmm,
what's it going to recommend,
Jamie?
A Burt Chrysler's life of the party.
Pretty good.
What a great suggestion.
Read by Bert and uh,
the audio books by the way are crushing the,
the reading books because much like Burt,
his fans do not reach it.
But again,
you can get all the information.
It's exactly as if you read it.
Uh,
so go there,
pick up the life of the party by our pal Bert Kreischer and enjoy the 150,000
plus other titles at audible.
A fantastic resource for people who enjoy audio books.
That's audible.com forward slash Joe four,
your free audio book and 33 days of all audible service.
Like I did that.
Oh,
audible service.
We're also brought to you by ting.
Ting is one.
My favorite is,
um,
not just one of my favorite podcast sponsors,
but it's also,
um,
the official podcast phone,
the phone,
the phone that we use for the podcasts,
we're booking guests and stuff is a Tang phone.
Why?
Because it's first of all,
if you're economically inclined,
if you think about saving money,
there's no better place than tank.
98% of people.
I'll say that again.
98% of people would save money with tank.
Why didn't have to say it again?
Say it again.
I sound like a Douche.
Like when people say that,
like the beginning of comedy clubs,
they do this thing where they go,
all right everybody,
you ready for the show?
And then people clapped.
They go,
that's not good enough.
I need here.
Oh,
come on you fuckhead I hated,
it's gross.
So foul should be abandoned and should be outlawed.
But there I said it anyway.
A lot of fucking people.
How about that would save money with Tang including you?
21 bucks is the average monthly bill with Tang.
What is Ting?
First of all,
ting is they use the sprint backbone.
So it is just like having a spawn,
a phone on sprint,
a major network and instead of doing it anyone else's way,
when you rent time on a backbone and you can kind of do it your own way and
their own way is the best way to look at it.
It's like it's very ethical.
It's very,
it's a very good deal.
What they do is they provide you with excellent service but they cut out all the
bullshit,
no early termination fees,
no contracts,
uh,
you pay for what you use,
which I believe is the future of cell phone service.
Now the way it is with most people,
if you are with a major network or a major carrier or other,
um,
you pay for x amount of minutes per month and if you go under that,
you don't get any money back.
And if you go over that,
they charge you,
you get charged,
you get penalized with Ting,
you pay for what you use.
If you use less,
you pay less.
If you use more,
you pay more and Ting on their second year anniversary for no reason other than
the fact that they could give people a better deal slash their prices.
He can Google it.
You could read the articles.
I will.
I'll spare you the details,
but I just love the way they do business and I've heard zero complaints from any
of my friends that use Tang.
I have zero complaints about tink personally.
I think they're excellent and if you go to rogan.tang.com you can save $25 off
of one of their outstanding and droid devices.
They even sell iPhone fives.
They have the iPhone five that you can get an iPhone four okay,
safe.
You're frugal.
You got an iPhone four for 95 bucks folks,
and if you pay 95 bucks,
it's yours.
That's the other thing I like.
I do not like when you buy a phone and Save,
let's,
you know,
we don't need the name of provider,
but say the phone cost to 99 it doesn't really cost to 99 it probably costs 600
bucks,
but it says to 99 and you pay two 99 initially,
but then every month you're paying a little bit of that phone off so that if you
try to cancel and try to leave,
that's where the termination fees come from.
That's where he cancellation fees.
It's very tricky.
It's,
you know,
it's like you're mortgaging a phone.
Fuck all that nonsense.
You can get a Samsung galaxy s four,
four,
$425 how about that?
You can get the HTC one m eight which is an outstanding phone,
600 bucks and it's yours.
The uh,
Samsung Galaxy s five,
the newest and greatest 597 bucks.
But when you pay that 597 bucks,
that's it.
It's yours now.
You could do whatever the fuck you want with it.
You,
it's yours.
Okay.
You don't have to pay anymore.
You don't have to pay any less.
rogan.ting.com save yourself 25 bucks.
It's an awesome service.
We're also brought to you by on it.
This is the last commercial o n n I t on it is a human optimization website.
What we sell it on,
it is essentially all things that I use.
I have found over the course of my life and athletics and martial arts,
I have found a bunch of things that have been shown through science,
through,
um,
through people that are a strength and conditioning experts that recommend it.
What are you doing over there,
Jamie?
He just jumped up,
panicked,
thought some shit was on fire.
Um,
through science,
through strength and conditioning experts,
things that have been shown to improve physical condition,
things that have been shown to improve cognitive function,
which is a very controversial aspect.
I mean,
he's like saying something's gonna improve cognitive function.
Meaning if you're one of the dumber people listening,
that means you make your brain work better.
Uh,
that sounds like it's gonna make your Dick Bigger,
right?
This is where it's wrong.
Have you ever had a day where you're like,
I feel like shit today.
I'm stupid,
my fucking brains not working and I can't remember what I wear when I'm supposed
to do.
There's days that you just don't feel right and then there's days where you feel
fantastic.
I believe,
and it's not just me,
it's been proven through science and studies that there's a bunch of different
factors involved in cognitive function.
Here's a big one.
Sleep.
Sleep's a huge one.
I mean it's mega like eight hours of sleep a night will will change the way your
body functions.
If you can get eight hours sleep at night,
your body will have the ability to recover that.
It just is not going to get,
if you're doing four and three and five and four and three,
it's just like you're breaking your body down.
So sleep number one,
nutrition,
huge,
gigantic,
absolutely.
Give your brain the ability to recover,
give your body to the ability to recover and it's going to function better.
Give it the nutrients it deserves and it's going to work better.
And some of those nutrients directly aid cognitive function.
And we have with Alpha brain taken the ones that we have shown or that have been
shown through clinical trials,
through anecdotal evidence that have been backed up by clinical trials,
years and years,
thousands of years for some of them have of use of human use.
And they have shown that there are some certain elements,
some certain elements of nutrition that you can take that actually improve your
memory,
that actually improve the,
the word,
the way your brain works.
And if you're skeptical,
you should be a,
if you go to onnit.com click on the Alpha brain link and then click on the rep,
the research page.
It'll show you all the different tests with sources,
with references that have been done on each of the individual ingredients.
And then it'll also show you the Alpha Blaine Alpha.
Blame.
This,
we need Alpha brain clinical trial.
Obviously I haven't taken any today on the Alpha brain clinical trial research
results.
Um,
we have done one test so far.
A double blind placebo controlled test showed positive results.
We're also doing a much larger one now.
The first one was called a pilot test.
You do it with 20 people,
I think three or four dropped out,
so it wound up being 16 people.
Uh,
but excellent results.
Um,
especially with when it comes to memory,
memory is a big one.
It's a,
it's one of the things like when you were,
when you're reaching for information,
when you're reaching,
when you trying to um,
formulate sentences,
that's where I feel that Alpha brain really benefits me.
The benefit,
it makes it easier for me to formulate sentences and it makes me easier for me
to know what the fuck I'm talking about when I'm saying things.
Uh,
if you're skeptical,
you should be,
um,
that's one of the reasons why we have the research page.
It's also one of the reasons why on and has a 100% money back guarantee on the
first 30 pills for 90 days.
Take it,
eat them all.
Say this stuff's bullshit.
You don't even have to return the bottle.
You get your money back.
We're not trying to rip you off.
We're just trying to sell you the best shit that we can find and all the shit
that I use.
If you go to [inaudible] dot com,
it's o,
n n I t use the code word Rogan.
You will save 10% off any and all supplements in June.
And that ladies and gentlemen can includes the commercial aspect of this
podcast.
Now we're going to talk to Isaac,
Aka Ike Haxton super wizard poker player.
Strap yourself in ladies and gentlemen,
the Joe Rogan experience.
Try by day Joe Rogan podcast.
Alright,
Isaac Haxton Aka [inaudible].
We're going to go with Ike.
Is that your writing is good?
Is that what your friends call you?
Yeah,
I want to be your friend.
All right,
let's go with,
um,
one of the things.
Um,
you,
you are a big time poker player,
travel all over the world.
Um,
and uh,
there's a lot of people on my message spore that are big poker fans and uh,
very excited to have you on the podcast.
One of the things they,
they asked me to differentiate because I bring this up all the time,
um,
that a lot of poker players are gamblers and a lot of poker players are kind of
degenerate gamblers,
but poker is not really a gambling thing.
It's more of a game of intelligence and a game of information and a game of
strategy.
Is that true?
Yeah,
well it's gambling in the sense that on any given day you win or lose money if
you're playing for high stakes when they lose a bunch of money.
But it's not gambling in the sense that it's outside of your control.
It's not like going to the roulette wheel and saying,
I'm in a red sort of mood,
let's bet on red and see what happens.
So it's gambling in the sense that there's money at stake.
It's not gambling in the sense that you are submitting yourself to chance and
just seeing what happens.
How did you get involved with,
well first of all,
your,
what are you,
28 years old,
28 years old and you are a world traveling poker player.
I mean,
that is first of all.
Awesome.
I love it.
Congratulations.
I'm sure congratulations on really being able to craft that kind of a life
because I think that's excellent.
It's really cool.
Um,
so how did you get started and how did you make this leap to becoming this,
you know,
internationally known professional?
Well,
I've been sort of an obsessed game player my entire life.
I started playing chess when I was four.
I started playing pretty seriously in tournaments when I was like six,
played chess pretty seriously from six to maybe 13 or so.
I was never really great at chess.
Like probably my greatest accomplishment as a chess player is eighth place in
the New York state,
third grade and under tournament.
Um,
but,
uh,
so I played chess seriously for a while around 13.
I reached this point in my chess career where it got really boring where I was
just really solidly the second best player in the county.
And every time I'd go to a chess tournament,
I knew it was going to happen.
I was going to beat all these kids.
I was a lot better than I was going to play this dude nick in the final and I
was going to lose.
Why would nick beat you?
It was better than me.
He's studied harder and he had a sharper chess mind than me.
Um,
something that I never really got past in chess was that
okay,
it's really easy to make one small mistake and end the game and poker is a
little more forgiving of slight oversights.
Like in chess
you think through a move,
it looks pretty good,
you make the move and then right after you made the move,
Oh fuck bishop takes Knight Knight lose and poker is not quite the same.
In poker you make a comparable blunder and you bet the river and you think this
is a pretty good bet,
you're going to beat a bit more than half the hands to call you and then you
think,
oh shit.
Actually he can also have played King Jack of spades this way.
This was a slightly bad bet rather than a slightly good bet and it doesn't end
your tournament to have made a slightly wrong play in chat.
In poker the same way it doesn't chess.
So I think my brain is set up better to be an extremely good poker player than
in an extremely good chess player.
Would it be,
uh,
an irrelevant analogy to say that playing poker is like more of a,
a game where you restart every time?
Yeah.
Whereas Chaz is like a sword fight.
Like you,
you get one chance to not get stabbed.
If you get your arm cut off,
you're going to die.
Yeah.
That,
that is actually a pretty good analogy.
You,
so when you play poker,
um,
are you the of guy,
like when you like read a person and you have an idea that you have a big
advantage,
will you then take a big chance?
Will you then gamble or you are,
are you a conservative,
calculated sort of a guy?
MMM.
You don't want to give up your hand,
doesn't want to tell people how he thinks.
I see what he's doing.
He's like,
I see what you're doing.
You playing chess right now he's going back and forth.
I should maybe shut the fuck up,
man.
No,
I,
I'd say I'm more in the former category.
I mean,
so you're more of a gambler guy.
In poker you have to make the best of the edges that you're given.
You
aren't presented with constant unlimited opportunities to get an advantage.
So when you are presented with one yet you have to,
so there's a certain amount of courage that's involved in playing the game of
poker as it's not something that you chip away at necessarily.
It's something that when the opportunity presents itself and you believe that
you have it,
do you have like a,
a green light that goes off in your head or do you have an instinct that you
sort of rely on?
Um,
in,
in terms of like the risk management part of what you're talking about?
A lot of that is actually outside of the process of making decisions within a
hand.
So like
in terms of risk management,
a lot of that is like managing the stakes you play relative to how much money
you have.
So if I'm playing a cash game and it's a game where you buy in for $5,000
that's a game where losing one hand for the maximum amount isn't going to ruin
my life,
isn't going to have a big impact on anything.
So in that context,
I can go ahead and risk of the full $5,000 that's in front of me on a half a
percent edge because that's how you make money playing poker.
You identify an edge and you
exploit it.
So in terms of like courage and risk management,
the risk management thing comes in before you're actually playing a hand.
And then in the course of playing a hand,
you have already made decisions that put you in a position to be comfortable
taking the maximum amount of risk that
you could be confronted with after that point is what I'm saying.
Making sense?
Yes,
totally makes sense.
So you're more inclined to take a big chance if you're betting a small amount of
money.
That's what you're saying for the small amount of money going in.
Now when you go,
what is the,
like the biggest buy in that you've ever had to play?
Uh,
for a tournament it would be a dollar buy in.
Oh,
Jesus.
Little weasel.
Wow.
So,
um,
when you do that,
I see you're sponsored by pokerstars.
Dot Net.
Um,
does pokerstars pay for a portion of that?
Did they give you a piece of the action?
How's that work?
Are pokerstars does not,
but what I,
well part of my contract with poker stars does involve getting a certain amount
of money per year that is earmarked toward buying into poker tournaments.
But they're not like explicitly staking me in the poker tournaments.
It's just Mike compensation for,
right.
So you're setting,
so your compensation is essentially up to your management discretion.
Yeah.
So when I play something like a million dollar buy in poker tournament,
what I do is I take on investors who are typically other professional poker
players and they buy shares of me in the tournament.
They put up a fraction of the buy in and if I win,
they get a fraction of the winnings.
Oh,
that's fascinating.
So,
uh,
you guys kind of back each other.
Yeah.
Hmm.
So you,
if you go into a poker tournament and there's maybe 20 guys,
it's conceivable that you and the guy you're playing against in the finals have
a piece of each other.
Yeah.
That happens somewhat off.
That's a big thing in the world of pool.
But Pool,
they do it in billiards,
professional pool because they don't make as much money and so they,
they,
you know,
they kind of like a make a saver.
That's what we call it.
So like say if you and I worked to play in the finals and it was a major pool
tournament,
I,
it depends on the agreement,
but we might make a 50,
50 or 60,
40 split.
So we would play our best,
but you would know that no matter what,
worst case scenario,
even if you lost,
you were going to get 40% of the purse.
Right.
The same thing also happens in poker tournaments.
In addition to what I was describing where people sell action before the
tournament starts,
there are also often deals made toward the end of the tournament.
So I was recently playing a tournament in Las Vegas and when we got down to
three players left,
it was me and two other guys who I think are also really strong poker players
and we agreed that rather than play it out,
we are going to just divide up the remaining prize money according to how many
chips each of us have and called today.
Wow.
Does that bother people,
does that,
is there an ethical quandary involved in that
there?
I would say there's a vocal minority of people who are bothered by that and that
most people are not bothered by it at all.
That's something you see happen everywhere from the very highest stakes
tournaments in the world to a weekly $20 tournament that at some point people
will agree to a chop.
It can be a partial chop where they just take out
some of the money,
like the saver sorta thing you were talking about.
Or it can be a complete drop where they just split up the prize pool and call it
a day,
but the vocal minority,
what is their argument like?
What did they say?
They say you guys are ruining it.
This is like poker supposed to be about gambling and chance,
and that's where the excitement comes in and
that,
or it's supposed to be a pure competition.
It's not supposed to be about this deal making,
supposed to be,
you go in,
you compete the best or luckiest player wins.
And that's the guy who gets all the money.
Now the vocal minority,
are they the spectators or are they the actual players themselves?
Are they the commentators?
Are they the,
it's the spectators and the media then people who are actually in there playing
on a day to day basis.
Same thing with billiards.
Yeah.
That's interesting.
So the spectators feel like it's not as exciting for them?
Is that the idea?
Hmm.
So will they want to see one guy win 1 million bucks and one guy went dog shit.
Yeah.
And I mean,
that's understandable,
right?
Like I guess,
yeah,
I guess,
yeah.
I don't know man.
I mean,
uh,
I think I'm too close to stuff like this to see it objectively because I'm
friends with so many pool players and because,
um,
I don't,
you know,
I think people should be compensated.
I,
I hate the idea of a winner take all thing.
Right.
You know,
because like if to like there was a big pool tournament called the tournament of
champions and every year the winter gets a a good for pool.
I think it's like 50 grand.
It's not much for poker but everybody else gets dark shit,
you know,
so.
So of course people they chop it up.
Yeah,
they definitely chop it up.
So the people that are the,
the commentators and the spectators like,
um,
you say the vocal minority,
is it only small percentage of the commentators and spectators?
It's hard to tell cause it's the people who don't have jacked on saying anything
about it.
Right.
But I would guess it's only a small percentage
now.
There's no rules against it though.
Right.
It's not like something you guys have to do on the sneak tip.
There are some tournament venues that won't enforce the chop,
which means I'm at the majority of tournament venues.
You say to the tournament director,
we've agreed to this chop pay each of us this amount of money at a minority of
venues.
You can't do that.
You say that the tournament directors has,
I don't want to hear it.
You have to play the tournament out and then you do it.
You're and then you have to do it on your own and then you have to trust the
other people at the final table to honor the agreement and turn around and hand
you the cash right after the turn.
Has Anybody ever not honor that agreement?
Very rare.
I can't think of,
I can't think of a circumstance where it was like a handshake deal chop at the
final table and then somebody just didn't pay.
I couldn't.
That would be a disastrous thing there.
That person,
there've been a handful of cases where somebody has made backing deal and then
refuse to pat their backer.
Whoa.
There was a really high profile one with the guy who won the world series of
poker main event several years ago on Jamie gold.
Got Taken to court by a guy who claimed to have a backing arrangement with him
and had like voicemails saying,
yeah,
I'm giving you this amount of money for 50% of your winnings,
and then after the fact Jamie gold,
like,
nope.
Why did he say that?
I don't know.
He was a pretty weird guy.
He was still,
no,
it still is.
He's a pretty weird guy who I have considerably less exposure to lately because
he has more or less moved on from the poker world.
W Well,
Jesus Christ,
he won the world series of poker,
won the world series of poker main event,
had a big dispute with a guy who claimed to be entitled to a big share of his
winnings and then just faded out of poker because of that,
not because of that all lost back a lot of what he'd won playing in tournaments
and cash games and
just decided,
fuck this game.
Pretty much.
Yeah.
How do you get to,
I just would imagine that if you've got so good that you win the world series of
poker,
that's like a very profitable way to
okay.
To spend your time.
Well,
I think that's the thing is that not everyone who wins the world series of poker
main event is an excellent poker player.
It's one way.
It's one tournament with,
uh,
on the order of 6,000 players and the best player in the tournament is maybe 10
times as likely to win it as the worst player in the tournament,
but it's one tournament.
So it's possible that a middling tournament player can win the world series of
poker happens all the time.
Wow.
I never knew that.
Oh yeah.
That's crazy.
See that never happens in pool.
No.
Yeah.
You're not going to beat like Earl Strickland in the finals if you suck.
That's so crazy.
And that's why you can play poker for high stakes and it's pretty hard to find a
high stakes pool again without some careful handicapping.
Yeah.
Wow.
I never knew that.
That's fascinating.
I always felt like the guy who won was the best guy or there's like a handful of
best guys and they swap positions and it's about who's focusing more.
No,
I mean
this year a guy made the world series of poker final table for two years in a
row.
That hasn't happened in about 10 years.
Ah,
that's interesting.
I need to pay attention more than this poker shit.
Um,
now what about gambling in Vegas?
Did they put a line on who's going to win?
Uh,
yeah,
you can.
You can make bets on the outcome of the tournament,
but
okay.
They only,
whereas for like a football,
if
the
giants are playing the falcons,
you can that the money wine and you can get two to one on the giants if they're
the underdog or lay two to one and take the Falcons for poker tournaments.
The bookmakers are not that confident that they know the right prices and they
only put up one side.
If you want to bet on one guy to win the tournament,
they'll give you a price,
but it's a really bad price and you're going to lose making that bet and you
can't take the other side.
Ah,
okay.
Betting on the outcome of poker tournaments is a pretty small market.
Okay.
Yeah,
because the,
that's another thing they tried with pool,
but um,
they took the one time they did it in Vegas,
there's this big tournament and this one guy,
Mike,
Lebron is an excellent player,
but it was like the 40 to 100 dog.
So they all dumped to Michael O'Brien and they all put that on Mike,
Lebron and Mike.
Lebron won to winning the whole tournament.
And then the,
you know,
of course Vegas is like,
all right,
you fucking shortsighted assholes.
We're done.
Right.
You know,
all the 40 to one guy,
one and everybody's missing balls they should never fucking miss.
And it was just so ugly.
Yeah.
That,
I mean,
that's kind of attentional issue.
Anytime you're betting on the outcome of a sporting event that it could be
fixed,
especially a sporting event with the players.
Don't make so much money.
That's the thing is when you get to the small market stuff like pool or the
players aren't making a lot and you can bet more on the outcome of the
tournament and the tournament itself,
it's worth,
that's obviously creating a bad situation.
World series of poker comes along and uh,
Vegas puts up a line I could bet on you to win the whole thing.
Yeah.
But that's basically it.
I couldn't bet on you against individual players and individual games or
um,
maybe some of the smaller online bookmakers you could get some prop bet saw
unlike who'll be in the tournament longer,
me or Phil Ivey,
that type of thing.
Right.
But
yeah,
betting on the outcome of poker tournaments real small.
Like if you wanted to bet,
they'd probably let you bet.
Maybe a couple hundred dollars.
No,
a lot of these poker players,
oh,
you won't,
you couldn't buy like 50 grand or something.
Right now,
a lot of these poker players are like serious crazy gamblers.
They'll gamble on golf and they don't even play golf.
Like they'll do shit like that.
Like $1 million on a game of golf.
Who,
who's like the nuttiest when it comes to that stuff?
MMM.
Yeah,
that's a good question.
Phil.
Ivey does.
A lot of that comes to mind,
but the thing with him is he's a real sharp guy when it comes to bedding on
stuff.
He is
not as crazy as he'd want you to think.
Um,
like with golf for example,
he started playing higher and higher stakes golf with people and was losing
everybody's like Phil's.
We all got to gamble
on golf with Phil Who's dumping,
he wasn't dumping,
he was legitimately bad.
But then what he did was he went and got coached by tiger woods' coach and got
really fucking good and came back and played for huge stakes against a couple of
guys and smashed them midway through the round.
They're like,
this is bullshit.
What's going on?
When did Phil get good?
So how did he do it on the sneak tip?
Did he put like a mask on and fucking,
I mean,
everybody knows what Phil Ivey looks like.
If you're a pool player or poker player rather,
what would he need to be sneaky about?
Like where he practiced?
Oh yeah.
I mean I guess he like took a vacation to Hawaii or something.
Wouldn't it take more than like one vacation must be a really sharp dude month
long every day.
Yeah.
And then came back and kick some,
see I don't do the golf thing is so bizarre to me.
I would think there's so many variables involved in golf that like the courses
themselves are variable,
the wind is variable.
There's,
there's so much going on like figuring out where the ball lies and then trying
to figure out the roles of the hill and all that jazz and trying to get,
I mean,
yeah,
it seems pretty damn complicated.
I haven't played really long time.
But
yeah,
the mechanics of it seem very difficult to learn and I understand like the
coaching could help that.
But even just the variables,
like when a guy like tiger woods was just dominating everybody,
like winning like crazy.
It just,
I defied my imagination because I was always like,
how could this one guy figure out this weird game?
Like where there's so many variables,
so much better than everybody else.
Like what could it possibly be?
Yeah.
Is it feels it touch?
Is it,
you know,
like what is it that's allowing him to see the roles and the of the hills and
then how does it all go away with one divorce?
That's the really crazy part.
That's the craziest of the crazy,
I read this study that I'm on hedge fund managers that by far the most
predictive variable of the performance of a hedge fund is whether or not the
manager is currently going through a divorce.
Oh yeah.
Cause then your life just goes into a turmoil.
Yeah.
Hmm.
Or if your wife's or can't you get out of that divorce and you just fucking free
thoughts are clear.
It really just depends.
Right.
It depends on whether or not it's a good divorce.
Whether you're not,
you want it.
Yeah.
I mean,
even if you want it,
I bet it's still a pretty big disruption.
Depends,
man.
Yeah.
I've seen both sides.
I've seen horrible,
horrible divorces where you know,
the guy's just destroyed and usually it's financial.
The financial stress of of divorce is really for,
for a person who's never been through it or never seen someone go it,
it's,
it's like you're being attacked by aliens that you can't see and they're
stealing money from you.
And just like every second of every day,
thousands of dollars are leaving your bank account and you're watching yourself
go broke.
You watching years of your life,
all the work you've put in.
I had a good friend that,
I've talked about it on the podcast before,
but not only did he get divorced,
but his wife calculated and planned it where she went to every good defense
attorney or every good divorce attorney in town and consulted with them before
she decided to pick one so that when the husband found out that she was
divorcing him,
he couldn't get a good attorney because they had already talked to her.
So some sort of a conflict of interest,
that's pretty diabolical.
She's his diabolical as it gets.
Not only did she do that,
but because they were together for so long,
he had to pay for her attorney because she didn't work and he has to pay her for
essentially the rest of her life because they were,
they were married from one than 12 years.
California has some wacky laws,
so the only way it will be different is if she remarries,
which of course she never would because you know,
she's,
she would lose her,
her sweet paycheck that she gets her mind.
I watched this guy like age 10 years into,
in two years,
he probably aged 10 and just was pulling his fucking hair out and going crazy
and it was never over.
I was like,
are you out yet?
Is it over yet?
It's like,
no,
no.
She's renegotiating,
she's changing the term.
She's doing it.
And she was doing it because he had to pay for her lawyer as well.
So she just dragged it out as long as possible.
She dragged it out for almost two years.
Is Poor guy got destroyed.
So for him.
Yeah,
I would fucking w I wouldn't bet on him playing golf.
That guy will be fucking knocking balls into the tree tops and screaming and
attacking birds.
It,
his clubs.
Uh,
it's,
it's devastating for people.
They do.
You mean when you know,
and women want to know why,
why guys don't get divorced?
Maybe they know somebody like that,
you know,
or tiger woods.
Yeah.
Poor bastard.
Not really though.
Right?
He's still fine.
Yeah.
I think he'll make it.
He'll make it.
He's just a,
he's not tiger woods anymore,
right?
Yeah.
Like how many,
how many golf tournaments as he won since the,
uh,
since the divorce.
Oh,
really?
Follow Golf.
But I don't think it's money.
Why?
It's weird.
Do you follow Jamie?
Yeah,
he's won a few.
Yeah.
He recently coming back from an injury.
Right now.
Everybody this,
I just saw something the other day.
He,
they say he's got about 10 years left in his career to catch Jack Nicholson.
How do you get an injury playing golf
back?
I mean,
there's a lot of torque in that swing.
I can sit down at your back fucking pussies.
Jesus Christ.
You're playing golf.
I would surely get injured.
I just hit myself with the club.
Well that's,
if you knew what you're doing,
I bet you would.
So you're 28 years old.
How long have you been a professional poker player?
I've been playing seriously and making money at it about 10 years.
Uh,
filing taxes as a professional gambler since I was 18.
I was in school and only sort of playing part time for the first few of those
years.
So six to 10 years depending how you count.
So you're doing it through college.
Yeah.
And at one point in time when you were in college and you were in the middle of
some stupid course that you didn't really give a fuck about,
where you like,
you know what,
I think I could be a gun damn professional poker player.
Definitely.
That's what it was.
Second semester of my junior year,
um,
poker was going great.
School was not.
Um,
I was studying computer science,
which at one point I was pretty good at.
I thought,
this is the thing for me.
I'm going to get my undergrad degree in computer science.
I'm going to go to Grad school,
do some more computer science and become a professor or working research,
something like that.
I thought that was my career.
Um,
second semester,
my junior year,
this thing started happening to me where I'd go to the computer lab and sit down
to do a project and an hour would go by and I just still be staring at a blank
screen.
I just hit a wall.
I couldn't do it anymore.
Wow.
What was that?
I don't know exactly.
Um,
I,
I think it was some subconscious part of my brain realizing ahead of the more
conscious and willful part that this was not what I wanted to do long term.
That's fascinating.
So you had a passion for it at one point in time,
or at least an interest in it.
Yeah.
And was it just that the,
the passion,
the interest for poker sort of overcame it?
That it became an option?
That it became like,
I think that was
probably only a small part of it.
I think that even if I hadn't found poker and decided to make a career of that,
that I would have made myself get through Undergrad,
computer science and somewhere around Grad school or early into a career doing
that,
I would have realized it wasn't doing it for me.
Yeah.
That's something that some kids do when they're young and there's,
they're starting to try to pick a career.
They,
they look at something that they think they can do and then once they start
doing it,
they go,
this is not what I want to do though.
Oh Shit.
You're 18,
you get to school and they tell you pick a major.
Yeah.
How crazy is that?
And like I took an econ class,
a math class,
a computer science class,
and a cognitive science class.
My first semester of college I was like,
I really don't like the math class.
The econs kind of boring.
I don't really think there's a career for me and cognitive science.
I guess I'm a computer scientist now,
but it's not what you were drawn to.
I mean,
I liked it.
I thought it was interesting.
Um,
some of the classes more than others.
I liked the theory and math side of it than I liked
spending 12 hours in the computer lab banging out code.
Isn't it so weird that we expect kids at 18 years of age to be able to pick
their future to be able to pick a direction for their future?
Yeah.
It's just so bizarre.
I just,
I can't imagine going through that again.
You know,
for me,
I um,
I took a year off when I got out of high school and then I went to Umass Boston
for three years,
but I completely half assed it.
Like I just was doing it cause I didn't want to be a loser so it was good.
I was going to school with no idea whatsoever how I was ever going to fit into
any traditional work environment.
And all the while I had a sort of a career because I was teaching martial arts
and I was teaching it at a high level,
is teaching it in Boston University and I had my own school and everything like
that,
but I was still going to school and I was like,
what the fuck am I doing?
But at least I had like some things that I was interested in,
but I had friends that were going to school and they're like,
well,
I'm going to be an electrical engineer.
I'm like,
is that what you want to do?
You know?
I Dunno.
I'm okay.
That's it's good money.
You can make good money.
I'm like,
okay,
well want to get a job?
Yeah.
But that life is a weird life,
man.
That's the life that the majority of people do.
The majority of people do this life where they start doing something because
it's a job that they can do.
Fuck man,
that's a,
that's terrifying to me.
Sad,
scary thought for a guy like you.
So that's why when I hear about a guy like you,
I go,
yes.
Like,
I love when my guy,
yes,
I fucking love when I meet a,
uh,
another comedian I love when I meet a guy who makes a living as a musician.
I love when I meet a writer,
you know,
I have lovely people that have figured out a way to stay out of that fucking
trap,
that weird trap of just doing something because you can do it.
And you know,
and people who are doing something cause they can do it and they're listening to
this,
don't they?
I'm not criticizing you.
I easily could have been you easily.
You know,
it's not,
no one's better than you.
I'm just celebrating you.
You like that you,
you did it,
you figured it out.
There's a lot of luck involved.
So fuck on in different ways.
There's a luck,
a lot of luck involved in being American.
It's a lot of luck involved and having good,
you know,
motor skills that you can walk and you don't have a disease and you know,
you don't have a fucking cancer.
Your eyes work,
you know,
there's a lot of luck involved in a lot of different things.
So no doubt about it.
And there's definitely a lot of luck in finding a path,
picking a path,
and then figuring out that this is something you can actually do.
And that's when the courage and then the determination come in once there was an
opening to just run,
run through that door.
So when you were 18 and you started making money doing poker and then you
realize that like school was kind of whack,
what did your parents think about that?
Well,
the way that played out was,
like I said,
second semester,
my junior year,
I failed most of my classes
after like
straight A's for five semesters.
Um,
suspect drugs.
Hm.
No,
I,
I don't think that was,
that's what I was expecting.
I'll give you a little piss test tomorrow.
You Fuck you doing all that college tuition and those cup,
what did they think?
Um,
you're bored.
Yeah,
board.
Uh,
okay.
I think that they were a little skeptical of the computer science thing all
along that
I just seemed just sort of pick something out of a hat and go for it.
And it was not a huge surprise to them
that I was getting sick of it.
And then
by coincidence are over the following summer,
some legal rumbling started in Washington that maybe it's time to crack down on
online gambling.
And a bill called the unlawful Internet gambling enforcement act got passed,
um,
or was due to get past that fall.
And
I started thinking,
shit,
online poker might be going away.
I got to get all the money while I can.
And I called up the school,
this was like late August.
I'm like about to go back to school.
I called up the university and said,
uh,
I made me want to take next year off.
What happens if I do?
Is there any penalty?
Can I come back the following year?
No issue.
And they said,
yeah,
it's fine.
Uh,
you've got like one more week to let us know.
I said,
okay,
I'll call you back in a bit.
I call it my parents.
I was like,
I'm pretty sure I want to take the year off and just play poker full.
Wow.
And what did they say?
And they said,
why?
And I explained the Uid a thing and the
okay.
Getting sick of computer science thing and my mom said,
how much money do you think you can make if you take a year off and play poker
full time?
It's like a,
my goal would be about a million dollars.
Whoa.
And she said,
that sounds good.
I think you should do that.
Yeah,
you got to go high.
You can't get it.
I hope to make about 30 grand the first year.
But yeah,
1 million bucks is a good call.
People like hearing that their kid made 1 million bucks.
Yeah,
go for it son.
And you were only 18,
right?
Yeah,
no,
I was um,
about 21.
21.
Yeah,
I'd been doing it for three years already.
I've made a few hundred thousand bucks already by that point.
It wasn't out of thin air.
Yes.
It was like I'm going to be playing these stakes this many hours a week.
I beat these games for this much.
It was like a realistic target for me.
Wow.
Now,
what is the difference between a successful online poker player and a non
successful
when it was legal?
Because obviously now it's a big fucking mess,
right?
You can't,
you could legally gamble if you are a resident of Nevada online.
Isn't that the case?
The legal situation in the US and worldwide is pretty complicated.
Um,
the really weird thing is that
no laws actually changed how the government felt like enforcing them changed
when the law was talking about the You iga past.
I didn't know this at the time.
I was making a decision to take the year off,
but the final language of the bill says nothing about what unlawful Internet
gambling is.
It assumes that something that
somebody else already knows and provides for enforcement against the banking and
credit card transactions that facilitate illegal online gambling.
It's in no way clear what illegal online gambling in the u s is what they're,
they're gone so crazy.
There's,
there are no federal laws about online gambling other than this anti illegal
online gambling enforcement act.
Online gambling is treated as illegal by
the Department of Justice on the basis of a law from the 60s called the wire act
that says you can't play sports bets over telegram.
And they're like,
yeah,
fucking telegram,
telegram.
Oh my God.
How about smoke signals?
Is that legal still?
Jesus Christ.
And they're like,
that's basically like playing poker on the Internet.
Wow.
That is so crazy.
So they decided that that's playing poker on the Internet.
Yeah.
Wow.
Gambling on sports through a telegraph that is,
that's so loopy.
Yeah.
And what was this like sponsored by the casinos or something like that?
Is that how it got weasel through the wire act or the UAE?
You Egg Ga,
the them cracking down on it had to be right.
Yeah,
probably.
It's hard to tell.
Um,
the casino lobby is really fucking powerful in America.
Oh yeah.
A lot of goddamn money involved.
A lot of money involved.
Donate a lot of money to both political parties.
Um,
yeah.
And,
and then of course that you can see these as well.
Right?
The unions,
I'm sure as well.
Uh,
yeah,
the,
it's like for instance there are,
I don't actually know what Union represents casino workers,
but um,
I think it's one of the bigger like food service sorta ones and is a big deal.
Yeah.
I would imagine that they would do it just to shore to strengthen their position
as job holders because like the the you have c has a big issue with the culinary
union.
Yeah.
I think that's who has a lot of the casino jobs as
well.
I'm not sure.
I'm sure.
Well that's what they're trying to do is the reason why the UFC has an issue
with the culinary unions because the zoo for the company that owns UFC also own
station casinos.
So there's this huge push to try to get them to turn their casinos into union
casinos.
So they're keeping the UFC out of New York that way.
Like paying off politicians.
It's fascinating.
It's fascinating because it's so old school and so transparent like the
corruption.
So I mean New York state like the,
the actual people themselves would benefit tremendously if they allowed mixed
martial arts.
Sure.
They also have boxing already there,
which is more dangerous.
They mean it's all proven and they still,
for whatever reason,
have been able to bribe these politicians transparently.
All that shit is just a power struggle over the money it seems like.
So they just try to keep online.
Yeah.
Poker,
online gambling,
it was the same thing.
The online or the uh,
casino lobby,
the u s has gone through a few stages in what they think about online gambling.
At first they just ignored it.
Didn't give a shit.
That's not a real thing.
Nobody's going to gamble on the Internet.
Who Cares?
And then around about 2005,
2006 they started saying,
oh no,
this is,
this is unethical.
We can't let people gamble from their homes.
They need to drive to their local casino and gamble.
That's where we make money
and that's where we serve liquor.
So we can be sure that they're fucked up when they're growing.
And think of the children,
if you're playing online,
it could be anybody,
which of course is wrong in both directions.
For one thing.
People Gamble under age and casinos all at the time for the other,
the identity verification stuff for online gambling,
it's probably stricter than for live gambling anyhow.
That's a pretty interesting is it?
I didn't know that.
So like what are you like what's the online thing?
Like what do you use?
You have to show a photo of your credit card.
Your driver's license
varies from site to site and ramps up if there was more money involved.
And how would they go to you and not just someone who has the information.
Like if you were a 16 year old kid,
you grab your dad's information and just start entering it in,
you need more than a credit card.
What do you mean?
Uh,
it,
it depends on the site,
but like
copy of photo id,
utility bill,
you might need to answer a phone call on a landline associated with the address
you claim.
Why I cause not the one who's making this gamble.
It's me.
My name's George.
I'm 50 bass in my voice on and yeah,
obviously you can get around anything.
I'm making a online,
I mean making a phone call.
That seems like so fucking old school.
Yeah,
that's such a weird way to verify,
isn't it?
I mean it's
one layer of a whole bunch of different shit that they do too.
If it's on a land line,
it demonstrates that you are physically in the place place you're claiming to
be.
Okay.
That makes sense.
I guess,
but just it seems like anybody could just be on the phone unless you're
facetiming.
Yeah,
I mean it,
that's why it's only one aspect of it.
Then you just have to hire a makeup artists looking he up like your dad,
I'm dead.
But that Internet gambling thing though that did,
it was a big crackdown because I remember it.
I remember at one point in time you used to be able to gamble on sports online.
Guys used to be able to used to play poker for money online.
It was really common.
And there was even some websites that were,
uh,
there was a,
I'm sure they're still around Bodog they still around.
Bulldog in the u s has become Valda.
And
what does Bo Vada Bova is the entity that they spun off of the main Bodog
corporate entities because operating online gambling in the u s is so risky that
uh,
they have basically set up their corporate fall guy of Bova,
which is what gets fucked when inevitably continuing to take bets from the u s
eventually goes poorly.
Oh,
I see.
So they're,
they're just kind of like setting up a straw house to blow down when the shit
gets,
but there meanwhile taking money out of Straw house and putting it in this big
stone mansion somewhere that's under a different,
and yet Bodog I,
I shouldn't say any of this to confidently,
I haven't been paying close attention to it,
but I think [inaudible] on the podcast every day,
I think Bodog is continuing to operate around the world as Bodog and his bow
Vata only for its US facing operations.
Oh,
okay.
That makes sense.
That Calvin,
I or guy,
he,
he can't even come into the America and to North America.
Yeah.
The are a bunch of people in the online gambling industry.
That's up.
Fuck.
They just live in Costa Rica.
Now or something.
Yeah.
It's so crazy.
It's so weird that that's what gets you locked up.
And what is it that they're saying they're not paying taxes?
Like what is the,
why would they not want revenue?
So he doesn't make any sense to me.
If people were willing to gamble and then they will pay taxes on those gambling
debts or gambling profits or whatever it was,
or even losses.
Um,
it seems like,
you know,
if the company wins money or if the person wants money,
taxes are going to be paid.
Like it seems like that should be pretty easy to,
well,
so to go back to what I was saying about the stages that the casino lobby has
gone through in their attitude online gambling around 2005,
2006,
they decided this is bad.
We need to shut it down.
It's competing money.
They fought.
They were,
they weren't,
they weren't that,
I mean this is my opinion here.
Um,
I,
I think that casinos saw online gambling as competition when it wasn't that,
um,
online gambling and casino gambling or not the same product.
I don't
if I'm the type of person who either likes to go play blackjack at my local
casino or likes to play slots on the Internet,
I don't play less black jacket,
my casino,
because I could play slots on the Internet.
They're,
they're not the same experience.
Right.
You don't get the same things out of them.
Um,
if anything,
the availability of online gambling was feeding casinos,
new customers because people would play a little online and say,
this seems fun.
I kind of understand this now.
Maybe I'll give gambling at the casino would try it.
Yeah.
That's how I would look.
Especially with respect to poker as opposed to other sorts of gambling going
into a casino to play poker,
having never done it before,
it's a little bit intimidating.
You don't really know how it works and you're surrounded by people who do and
the ability to get a little experience playing online in the lower pressure
environment,
I think introduces people to the game who then go on to play in life.
Well,
no.
When you go to a lot of casino,
how many people are like me that don't know how to play poker at all?
But they're still trying to play poker.
I like to,
people get liquored up and just wandering in the poker room.
Go there.
It's fucking give this shot
every once in a while and more at lower stakes than at higher stakes obviously.
Obviously.
Uh,
at high stakes it's pretty rare to see somebody who has never really played
poker before.
But it happens,
it happens for sure.
Does that like when you see some fucking fish,
some big fish that comes in some way,
what do you call them?
Whales?
Is that what you guys call them?
Fish.
Whales?
What's the common pool?
Criminology in poker.
So they come in and a lot of money don't know what the fuck they're doing and
everybody's slowly starts circling them.
Yup.
There is a long wait list to play at the table that guys,
that if there's not a seat available,
he walks in,
he says,
I want to play.
Everybody looks up,
that guy looks rich and we don't know him.
Uh,
this game can become 10 handed.
Now pull up a chair.
So when a guys,
when you don't know a guy,
so the world of poker essentially,
you know,
all the elite players.
Yeah.
There's no one who could sneak up on you.
Ah,
I mean there are probably a few people there probably like a handful of guys who
mostly play online,
turn off at a casino and
I wouldn't recognize him,
but they're among the best players in the world.
Wow.
But for the most part,
yeah,
I recognize most of the top layers.
My friend Ari Shaffir who's a standup comedian,
great guy,
funny,
hilarious motherfucker,
but very smart.
And uh,
when he was struggling as a standup comedian,
he's playing poker tournaments and you're just making more money playing in
casinos playing poker than he was doing standup.
Yeah,
I've heard already talked about that before.
I mean,
he's making a living,
doing it,
doing poker.
And uh,
I always found that incredibly fascinating that he was doing that,
that it was just going from place to place and playing poker.
And he gets,
he said he could kind of tell you kind of tell them people knew what the fuck
they were doing and where people would just assholes
instantly.
I mean,
but does anybody ever hustle like the way they do in pool there?
Pretend the sock and then they rope you in and yeah,
some,
uh,
it's more common,
I'd say at the mid stakes then at the highest stakes,
just because the world is too small to get away with it much.
Right at the highest stakes.
Yeah,
the high,
the highest stakes.
How many guys are there in the world that are just elite?
Dozens to hundreds depending on how you're counting it,
I guess.
So hundreds maybe,
maybe.
But out of those hundreds you're aware of all of them,
you think?
Pretty much.
And if you're not
the overwhelming majority,
if I'm not,
it's because they're playing in games that don't have a lot of intersect with
the games I'm playing in.
What,
like
what about places like Macau or places like,
I mean,
that's obviously a huge gamble.
Miguel is really interesting.
Um,
I've played a couple of tournaments in Macau.
I've never played in a cash game in Macau.
Um,
do I have played in cash games with Macau guys a few times.
The UFC did some uh,
shows in Macau and um,
there's been some boxing out there and I think they're doing another UFC out
there,
but they said that like,
it's just like Vegas Times a hundred.
They said it's madness.
Like the amount of gambling and the craziness and the majesty of it all.
It's real crazy.
Where is that exactly?
Ah,
it's right next to Hong Kong.
It's like a one hour ferry ride from Hong Kong.
And how long has this been around Macau?
Ahm,
I want to say maybe 15 years,
maybe less.
I go crazy.
I think it's gotten huge in less than the last 10.
How does something like that happen?
How does something way bigger than Vegas just sprout out of China?
China says you can gamble here and the millions of Chinese millionaires save.
That sounds like a good idea.
Let's go gamble here and then just a building and there it is.
What is it like like the,
as far as like the buildings and far as like the Bizarro Vegas.
It's creepy.
I lived in Vegas for three years so I go there and
oh that's the win and it looks exactly like the win only it's on exactly the
opposite side of the world and everyone's Chinese.
Wow.
So they call it the when the,
when the Venetian or they rip offs or is it the same people?
Because you know how China does,
they do wacky shit like that.
They'll build like a fake Paris.
Like it's really strange how their,
their laws are over there as far as what's fake Eiffel Tower in Shanghai or
something like that.
And always they are fake guys.
It's hours.
This is like fake entire towns like European villages,
towns like down to the brick.
It look exactly like them.
There was this,
this story that was on one of the major websites,
I forget what it was,
where they deep,
I think it was vice actually,
they detailed all these different towns that have been constructed in China that
were exact replicas of famous like you know,
Swiss Alps towns.
And stuff like that.
So really weird.
I'm trying to is fucking weird.
Oh yeah.
Are you just got back from China too?
And he's just talking about how crazy it was there.
He told us about gutter oil.
Did you hear about,
you know,
got her on her on the podcast that can't be real and yes,
a lot of delicious food and Hong Kong I hope wasn't a delicious poop.
Might not be as bad in Hong Kong is mainland,
but maybe,
I don't know.
But so Macau has all the major players like the win and then the Venetian and
all that jazz
and uh,
a bunch of,
there's like a hard rock.
That tournament I played there was at the hard rock Macau.
And does everyone speak English there?
No.
What about the hookers?
Speak English?
I didn't talk to any,
I bet.
I bet
there there's certainly a market for it.
Oh yeah.
You'll think,
I would guess that market forces for some hookers to speak English in Macau.
Yeah.
My friend who went there said you couldn't get away from them.
They're just swarming you and they were like flies.
You said it was like mosquitoes in a hot summer day in the northeast.
It says crazy like how many,
how many hookers or where,
but it makes sense.
I mean,
a lot of people gambling a lot of money and lot of celebration.
A lot of victims,
uh,
drunks.
Yup.
I just can't believe that something like that can just explode out.
Like I never even heard of Macau until maybe two or three years ago.
Like A,
I remember peripherally reading about it online,
something like that.
And then I heard about boxing matches being held there and basically didn't know
anything about it till poker took off there maybe four or five years ago.
So you're 18 years old,
you start playing poker,
you're 21 years old.
You tell your parents,
you know what,
fuck it.
I'm going to give it a go.
Yeah.
I'm gonna,
I'm gonna try to make $1 million in the first year.
How many,
how much did you actually want it making that first year?
MMM,
1.6
God damn son.
Oh,
a couple months after I said that.
I played in one of my first ever big live tournament and finished second for
like 850,000 so I got up at about head start.
Wow.
Jesus Christ.
So everyone's happy at the,
at the accident household?
Yes.
Yeah,
yeah.
They,
they were okay with my plan.
So then from there do you just go guns blazing and just,
I went back and I finished school.
I only had a year left,
so I am you went,
you want 1,000,006 and went back and I would have told school does suck my Dick.
I would call come up,
fuck you and fuck computers that,
that was
80% what I did.
I went back and I decided to get a degree in philosophy.
I figured out that there was a particular track within the philosophy department
called a philosophy of science and logic that I could count some of the classes
I had already done toward and it was like five bullshit classes away from a
degree in philosophy.
I was like,
all right,
I can do that.
I'll get my college degree before.
I have to be the creepy old guy who's back on campus in 10 years when pokers
done,
I'll be happy.
I have yeah.
Degree.
Why did you think you were going to have you?
We're planning on failing.
You thought it was possible that it could all go away?
I thought it was possible.
It could all go away.
It could get too hard.
I thought that maybe I'm really good relative to my competition now,
but who knows about in 10 years.
Hmm.
You know,
it's like competing in a sport at some point.
You're older than the other people.
You're not as sharp as them.
They're hungrier than you are and you can't keep up.
Do you,
were we talked about in the,
um,
the ads,
uh,
I was talking about Alpha brain,
but there's a bunch of cognitive enhancing things that people take.
I know some folks take Adderall and some folks take a,
uh,
new Virginia or pro vigil,
um,
like these different cognitive enhancing smart drugs.
Do you guys fuck with those things?
Poker players in general?
Absolutely.
Like what,
what is like the most common stuff?
I mean caffeine is the number one.
There are waitresses walking around and serving coffee at poker tournaments.
Yeah.
And Booze to lose if you want it.
How many guys get liquored up by their plan?
It seems like a bad move,
right
ad hoc.
In terms of like high level competition,
the biggest tournament's essentially nobody,
uh,
cash games in a casino on any given night.
It's reasonably common.
Right.
So,
um,
what,
what do most guys take besides a,
there are plenty of people who take Adderall or Ritalin.
Ritalin,
it's a speed to right.
Yeah.
It's another one of the Anti Adhd sorta things.
Um,
pro vigil is not unheard of.
I fucked with that a little bit in college for studying and that I just didn't
like it very much.
I want to send you some Alpha brain,
say if you liked it.
A bunch of my friends use Alpha brain.
Yeah,
that's a good one.
Another good one is,
um,
there's a stuff called neuro one.
Have you ever heard of neuro one?
Um,
I've heard you talk about it before.
It's Bill Roman ASCII stuff.
Right?
It's really good as well.
There's a bunch of companies that are selling these cognitive enhancing formulas
now and especially now that Alpha brain has become really popular.
It's become super popular to sell these blends cause it's all these like
different things like per acid,
Tim and Coleen,
there's all these different things that had been shown to have positive effects
on cognitive function.
A friend of mine in a tournament a couple months ago gave me something called
Smart Caffeine,
which is just caffeine and Elfie Janine.
Ah.
And I thought that was awesome.
I've been taking some Elfie in Ian recently.
Hmm.
Do you press to him?
You ever mess with that stuff?
Haven't,
I've heard good things.
A few of my friends use it well are good.
One of my closest friends in poker is JC Alverado who no know he's on my
website.
Yeah,
met him much time.
Cool guy.
Yeah,
he's an awesome guy.
Great things to say about you.
He said that you were probably the best heads up player one on one player in the
world.
When you think about that Fella.
Yeah,
there are definitely in the running.
I mean,
so what is the different between playing heads up and playing Mike?
You know,
a large tournament like 30,
40 people.
Well,
besides the obvious like what's the,
the strategic difference?
Like how you approach it.
It's simpler.
Um,
which doesn't necessarily mean it's easier.
It means it's easier to get really in depth in how you're analyzing it.
And the same situations come up over and over again because it's only two
players.
And if there are nine players at the table,
that's nine different people who can do something different every hand.
And similar situations don't come up nearly as often.
Whereas when I'm playing heads up
two hours into playing a guy,
I can be in the spot where I'm on the button,
he's in the big blind,
I raise,
he calls,
flop,
comes down,
he checks,
I check,
turn comes down,
he bets,
I call river,
comes down,
he checks,
it's on me.
This exact situation,
no,
not the boards that have run out,
but the bedding action.
That situation has come up already 20 times in the match that we're playing.
And
I can have a pretty clear idea of in this exact spot,
this guy traps a little bit more than my average opponent.
He's going to take this line with a strong hand more than some other people
will.
So I can't bluff him as effectively or I can't make a value bet with quite as
weaker hand is.
I would against some other players.
And heads up poker
is more amenable to that sort of detailed analysis of how your opponent is
playing.
By the way,
I understood maybe 10 things out of 20 that you said.
I don't even think 10 button blind flop all that river.
Oh let's fuck yeah,
fuck jargon.
So would it,
how much of it like this,
this expression,
this is a big one,
the um,
the,
the big one is a poker face.
Having a poker face.
Like how much of that is real?
Like how much of is,
do you read a guy or do you worry the live poker?
Absolute.
Totally.
Yeah.
It's a huge factor.
So if we're looking at each other right now and we're playing,
what are you looking for?
MMM,
well feel it.
You sense it,
like
absolutely.
You do sense it and there's just a gut thing that happens for sure.
I,
you just look at somebody and he just doesn't look that comfortable where he
does look comfortable and often there's just a general sort of feel you get from
somebody that is difficult to put words to but that the top players are
confident when they get those gut feelings and go with them.
Uh,
but there,
there are specific things you can look for to like,
you can you want to first get a sort of baseline reading on people's posture,
like look at them sitting at the table when they're not playing a hand.
And then having done that,
you can
observe shifts from that.
Like somebody will,
um,
bumping into the mic here,
but somebody will get up closer to the table when they're interested in invested
in the situation.
Or you can even see somebody make like a micro gesture of recoiling in
frustration when a bad card hits the board.
Or You make a bet that they don't like,
and you can see little movements like that.
You can read somebody's Paltz in their neck.
Watts.
Yeah.
So you see some,
so you staring at someone's next.
In that sense,
it would be good to be a Fatso,
right?
Yeah.
Scarves while they play so that you can all,
it's all the top German guys now are wearing scarves while they play because
Germans,
no,
Joe,
that's so crazy.
So you look at a guy's pulse in his neck and when you're looking for the amounts
of beets on,
see if you can see how fast he going faster or like the blood pressure raising
when they're really tense.
Oh,
that's crazy.
I never would have thought that.
Or House.
Keep
someone who's breathing,
you can watch the rise and fall of their chest.
Wow.
One thing people do is people tend to be a lot more still and tight when they're
nervous and move around a little more and are more relaxed when they're
comfortable.
And so when somebody is trying to just keep it together and look,
put their poker face on look the same way,
they always look,
but they're actually really comfortable because they've got a great hand and
they're about to win
one.
You can sometimes see their legs will start pumping.
They'll,
they'll start tapping their foot real fast.
They'll be keeping everything above the table still,
but they're like,
we'll start going real fast.
Wow.
Now what about someone fake and all that stuff that happens all the time?
Does it?
Oh yeah.
Like in what way are any of those things like,
like to be,
now that I've just said,
I look at people's legs while they're applying.
I'm going to be playing in somebody's in a couple of weeks and he's going to be
bluffing me on the river.
He's going to start tapping his foot.
Cause I've just said that's something I'm looking for,
for evidence that they're strong.
So when you see someone like,
I'm sorry,
I think I used to do sometimes.
Uh,
I feel like I can't get away with it as much now because people know who I am
and expect me to be pulling some bullshit and in control of my physical stuff.
But something I would do is I would sit like this while playing in general and
on your face.
And like when I wanted to fake being nervous,
I'd lean into it
and you can like see my cheat,
go a little white where my knuckles are making contact with my face.
And that would make you look more nervous.
Yeah.
Few practices stuff in front of a mirror.
I mean,
why not?
If you can make one point $6 million your first year,
I had practice like Goofy Shit to take tells can be real subtle.
Like what about guys who play with sunglasses on and it's not super common.
It's very common.
Um,
tells from your eyes are,
it's a factor,
but it's not one of the biggest ones.
Um,
because you're used to people looking at you in,
in the eyes,
you're practiced at lying with your eyes.
You,
you know,
people are looking at your eyes.
Isn't an Eagle Song,
you can't hide your [inaudible]
sounds like an equal song.
I believe it is.
Um,
so,
so the glasses not,
not a huge factor.
Not a huge factor is the biggest one.
The Lips,
um,
the neck,
hands on general posture,
legs and feet.
Even people are not on top of that one.
How many times you've been faked out by fake towels?
It's hard to tell.
You don't necessarily know it was a fake afterwards because sometimes it's not
fake and you're just wrong.
You're wrong.
Your hand do you mean you're,
no,
you're,
the tell is genuine,
but you interpreted somebody,
he's
not actively faking you out,
but like none of this is an exact science.
Like I see somebody who's poults go up.
I know for sure their pulses up and that they're feeling something intense right
now.
It could be that they have a flush,
it could be,
it could be that they're really excited about their great hand,
or it could be that they're really stressed about the big bluff they're making.
Ah,
right,
right.
So you know,
something's going on.
So,
yeah,
you get these physical signs,
but there's not a direct path from that to knowing exactly what the heck
do you believe in psychic energy.
Do you believe that you can read something from a person other than just tells?
Okay,
that's a tough one to answer.
Um,
when you use the phrase psychic energy,
I'm inclined to say no because that sounds kind of magical and crazy,
but
I definitely believe that
there is very subtle nonverbal communication that happens between people that is
sometimes in voluntary that you just,
you know,
things about what's going through the mind of somebody you're sitting next to.
And it's hard to tell exactly how and why,
you know,
I mean,
I think that's,
look what happened.
Example,
like come on.
In what sense?
Um,
I mean,
whether at the poker table or in any other context when you're,
you are reading people's moods and thoughts all the time.
You can tell when somebody is feeling relaxed and happy.
You can tell when they're stressed out.
You can tell when they're
okay
focused and thinking hard or when they're spacing out.
Right.
Donald makes sense.
Like you just need interpret regular human movement,
communication and behavior patterns and such.
But I would say that one of the best sort of pieces of evidence that being
psychic doesn't exist is that there's no psychics that just become poker players
and start fucking cleaning up.
Yeah.
I mean,
clearly there's nobody who can just sit across the table from you and read your
mind.
Yeah.
Because every time,
if there weren't really psychics,
that would be the place where it would show up is poker.
Right?
Sure.
Or I mean,
any of a number of other places where you could
make a killing or otherwise be very successful and powerful based on that
ability.
I mean,
yeah,
those,
there'd be a lot of them.
Stock market would be a good one.
I'm playing the lottery obviously.
Um,
well that's getting into predicting the future versus
reading minds,
which,
I mean,
I,
I don't think anybody's doing either of those things,
but reading minds seems marginally more plausible than predicting the future.
Yeah.
Right.
That's a different kind of,
but reading the future's kind of interpreted as psychic,
right?
Isn't it?
I mean
in some way
that they're there similarly crazy powers that some people claim to have
design socially.
Does that like,
um,
it seems to me that like the ability to read towels and to be able to do,
be so tuned into it because it's part of the game of poker.
Does that carry over to social communication?
Like do you notice things more and the way people,
like we all know when someone's a bullshitter,
right?
We all know when someone bullshits you and tells you,
sorry,
that's like a little fucking screwy.
I mean we kind of have this weird sense just based on the data that we've
accumulated over a lifetime's worth of communicating with people that
something's off here and it,
and also if you've communicated with a bunch of bullshitters and kind of
recognize it.
Yeah.
So we feel like that like being a good poker player like makes you a better
social reader as well.
I think so.
I think probably not by a giant margin,
but yeah,
I think I'm probably a bit above average at that.
Uh,
I think I have
a more studied and self aware approach to it then a lot of other people do.
I,
I think I may have started from a baseline of being a bit below average at that
kind of thing.
Um,
where somebody might say that story felt kind of bullshit.
I'm more likely to say,
well,
he said,
I think and equivocated on a couple of things where that's not a way you would
talk about it if you weren't full of Shit.
Uh,
his eyes were darting around a lot.
so you look
at it and you would look at it in an analytical sense instead of just basing
Justin your instincts.
You would use both your instincts and analytical.
Yeah.
There's something,
there's something I,
I'm,
I'm one of the things,
main things that I'm fascinated with with poker is the ability to read minds.
The or read tells rather to the ability to sort of get this a sense of where
persons going with things get the sense.
I think that's fascinating because I'd know that that exists in real life.
I know it does.
I know it exists,
like that thing exists with,
with human beings.
I just don't know exactly what it is.
I've always wondered,
I always wondered what exactly is going on when people are looking at each other
and you know something's off.
Yeah.
You know,
just as,
I guess a sense like this is a perfect story.
I've told this before,
but my friend Brian Cowen,
he used to,
he's a great guy,
but he,
he's to date like some of the craziest fucking people of all time.
He's had a bunch of crazy people in his life too.
And I would hang out with them and he would have this guy over and I'd be like,
what do you disguise a fucking bullshit artists?
Like,
what do you,
he couldn't see it for whatever reason.
Just couldn't see it.
Yeah.
And um,
he introduced me to this girl within five seconds,
like a,
he goes,
hey,
this is blah,
blah,
blah.
This is my friend Joe.
Uh,
I go,
how are you doing?
And she goes,
oh,
hi.
I don't get my Brian,
I pulled him aside.
She's fucking crazy.
I go,
get out right now.
Whatever you're doing.
He goes,
no,
it's not crazy.
It's just nervous to be around you.
I go,
dude,
trust me.
I,
I have a spidey sense for like real crazy.
I ain't go,
that girl's fucking crazy.
Turns out,
of course he didn't listen,
moves her and blah,
blah,
blah.
Turns out she's on math completely out of her fucking mind,
uh,
is a prostitute.
Um,
has,
uh,
these John's in her life and,
and you know,
fucking pimps in her life.
And then he,
you know,
he gets rid of her and then years later he's a on a bar,
uh,
at a bar on sunset and a about to walk in and she walks by and she street
walking.
Jeez.
Yeah,
I spotted it like that.
Yeah.
He didn't spot it at all.
Fascinating.
He would be a suck ass poker player.
I don't think I'd be a good poker player.
I don't have the patience.
It's just not something I'm interested in.
But if I,
if I was interested in,
I wonder if I'd be able to pick up tells.
I find that so fascinating.
I feel like with all the experience in martial arts,
you would have a leg up on learning that stuff.
You're,
I mean,
picking up tells has some in common with,
you know,
looking at somebody stance and picking up that they're about to throw a kick.
Hmm.
That's interesting because looking at someone's stance and whether or not
they're going to throw a kick is based on data.
You know,
like,
um,
like sometimes I'll say like during a broadcast,
like he's about to throw a left high kick and someone will go how,
you know,
and because there's a very small but perceptible rise in his heel,
like his heel came up off the back foot in,
which means usually that a guy is trying to get a little bit of a head start
throwing a kick with his back leg and you just,
you see it because so many guys up throwing kicks at you or because you're,
you've tried to hide it on people.
When you throw the kicks at people,
you know there's,
there's a thing that you see,
but it's,
there's,
um,
there was a book on this and it's not about martial arts,
it's about just acquiring massive amounts of data about very specific things and
then being able to see these things coming.
I forget the term that they use,
but it was just about that,
about how for a person who doesn't have this data,
in their mind it seems like,
like,
how's this guy seeing this?
But for someone who has all that data,
it's like,
oh,
there it is.
You know,
just like this little blip little,
yeah,
it's exactly the same thing with picking up,
tells him poker because just thousands of times I've sat across the table from a
guy,
I've looked at him,
I've thought about whether or not I think this guy has a good hand and then I've
put out my call and he shows me his hand.
And I,
I've just been through that routine thousands of times.
And so now I find myself in that spot and the guys bet and I'm looking at him
and thinking about whether or not to call and
I have a big sample of what people look like right before I called them.
And then whether or not they show me the winning hit.
So a guy like Doyle Brunson who's been around for a hundred years,
it will be a wizard at that shit.
Right?
I would guess so.
Yeah.
That's really interesting,
man.
That's really interesting.
Like that does,
that guy should teach like tells,
right.
I give you,
you're that old.
Been around for that.
How long was that?
I've been playing so long time.
50 60 years or something crazy.
Like 50 years.
More like 60 yeah,
60 years.
Yeah.
All that dude's in his eighties I'm pretty sure.
That's amazing,
man.
That's that,
that all those years of accumulating that data and a guy like that has been
really been around for the transformation of poker too.
It was a real different thing back in the 60s yeah.
It was like you'd go over people's houses,
right?
Yeah.
That was all it was.
Did they have it in casinos back then?
I want to say the 60s was when poker in casinos began picking up his sixties
yeah.
What,
what led to this poker revolution that we find now?
I'm fucking,
everybody plays poker now.
Yeah.
The,
there were a few stages of it.
The earlier parts,
like what happened in the sixties and seventies I know less about,
but they started running the world series of poker in Vegas in the sixties mmm.
And have every year for
eh,
I guess world series started in 69 I think.
So they've run it every year for 40 some years now with the big one on
television was when they started showing those cameras and television the cards,
being able to see people's hands.
That was a shoe that was huge and making it a spectators or making an exciting,
even for a guy like me who doesn't play,
if I'm sitting at a bar and I look up and there's a poker thing on,
you see each guy's hand,
that's,
to me it's very exciting.
Yeah.
That's,
that was a huge leap forward.
They had tried televising poker tournaments before that,
but it's especially to a casual,
if you were a lot less interesting,
but you see la less of it,
at least for the cow,
the the,
you know,
the non-involved observer like myself.
You see less of it on television now in the u s in the u s in other countries.
This is not,
it hasn't fallen off in nearly the same way in other places.
And the reason behind that is that in order to make a profitable TV show,
you have to sell advertising space.
If you're making a poker TV show,
who do you want to sell advertising space to?
Poker online poker sites,
online poker sites can't advertise in the u s anymore.
Motherfuckers,
here's this.
Oh,
in Canada or England or France.
Poker on TV is still here.
So in Canada it's legal.
The Bellman,
it is ambiguous,
ambiguous,
because in most of the world it's ambiguous.
Can,
I would seem that like if you were a poker player and you live in America,
you just moved to Vancouver,
you play online,
Vancouver,
traveled on the America,
give up you to citizenship,
Canadians,
US citizenship and getting citizenship somewhere else.
Difficult.
A lot tougher than you might guess.
Yeah,
I would have bought them in 2011 when it became clear I was going to have to
leave the u s to keep playing poker online.
I was very startled that I can't just go wherever I want and set up shop and
stay there indefinitely.
So you would you live in Malta,
now's that your move?
Mostly.
Um,
I can only spend about half of the year there for visa reasons.
So I spend about half the year in Malta and do a lot of travelling around to
other places as well.
You fucking pimp,
look at you.
Kid goes from hating school trying to figure out,
gets the love of his parents fucking bolts.
Makes 1.6 a year,
the first year.
And then from there on when you got your degree and then you decided to just
dedicate yourself to being a professional poker player.
I like how many years was it until you kind of had to make this move out of the
United States?
Three.
Uh,
I graduated in 2000 date,
moved to Vegas and lived in Vegas from 2008 to 2011 and then move to Malta.
What was living in Vegas?
Clark?
It was pretty great.
Um,
I lived in panorama towers.
Uh,
you spend a lot time in Vegas,
you might know it.
It's the apartment complex.
Next door to have Angela is Jim.
Oh,
okay.
Yeah,
I know where that is.
Nice spot.
Yeah.
Uh,
and it was just full of poker players.
Oh really?
So it was like some friends of mine from college who moved out there with me at
the same time.
Um,
I had two friends from college who,
uh,
one still is a professional poker player.
One was for a couple of years and then went to law school and they moved out to
Vegas with me.
Uh,
my girlfriend then who's now my wife,
came out with me and then I met a bunch of poker players who are already living
out there and panorama towers and like 2008,
2009 was just insanity.
Um,
the whole building was just poker players and scrapers.
Oh,
empty apartments.
Wow.
What a party that must have been poker players and strippers.
How'd that work out?
A lot of money being exchanged and those towers allegedly,
allegedly,
I don't know any details of that sort of thing.
Good for you.
Stay on the straight and narrow son.
Avoid the de force that fucking traps hedge fund managers,
sending them to their doom.
So,
um,
so you'll,
you'll live in Vegas.
You're,
you're doing the poker thing in Vegas
and Vegas mainly online.
Mainly online still.
Yeah.
Why is that?
Um,
two
more profitable.
Easier.
Okay.
More profitable for me at that time given my personal skillset and inclinations.
Um,
there's money to be made doing both.
Uh,
the advantages with online poker are you can get a lot more hands an hour in.
You don't have any of the cost or wasted time associated with going somewhere to
play.
There's not the drive to get there.
And the drive back and the time spent waiting for a seat in a game.
Playing live poker involves all live cash games involves a lot of waiting around
for your term to get to play.
Yeah,
I would imagine.
Um,
and then once you get in the game,
you play 30 hands an hour online.
I'm playing three or 400 ads an hour and that,
that's not cool.
That's not even particularly high volume.
Are you playing more than one game at a time online?
Oh,
I see.
So you run multiple computers or
can it's just multiple windows on one computer.
Okay.
So there's different sites.
You can play multiple tables on one side real.
Yeah.
You're not doing anything sneaky or bad by playing multiple tables.
Now when you have a thing on sites,
do you have a time limit?
Yeah,
yeah,
pretty short.
Um,
something like 15 seconds and then after 15 seconds it goes into your time bank,
which is like another minute worth of time.
But that is not constantly replenished.
So like you use 30 seconds of your time bank now you've only got 30 seconds left
for the next hand if you were to go into your time bank again.
So yeah,
you have to play quite quickly.
That's,
that seems like,
yeah.
Why,
why would anybody go anywhere if you could play it on line like that.
And so
the games are tougher online because,
okay,
you can get so many more hands in.
The best players are winning so much that the competition to be the best player
in the game online is stiffer.
Whereas live
is it more fun for many recreational players,
people who are losing it,
poker,
not all of them.
Many preferred play in a live game where they can see and hang out with the
people you have to worry about
when you play it online.
Do you have to worry about bots or is that nothing anymore?
Like that was something that people are really worried about for awhile.
It's a concern for sure.
Um,
the biggest and best sites I think are doing a pretty good job at enforcing
against it.
Uh,
you can do various things to detect when it's a bot rather than a human playing
and shut it down.
Okay.
How do you do that?
Like what could they run programs or something like that to try to,
the site has various data to work with based on you're giving them,
um,
they're not like scanning your computer to see what other programs you're
running or anything like that.
They're not invading your privacy in that way,
but what they can do is they can keep track of your mouse movement around the
screen and the speed and timing that you're clicking on things.
And they can detect the difference between a human moving a mouse around the
screen,
like a human and a computer program that just jumps from button to button and
act instantly.
So at this point,
if you're running a bot that plays for you,
part of your challenge is that you have to code up software to move the mouse
around the screen in a convincingly human like fashion and evade this detection.
Uh,
they track your playing hours if you're just regularly playing for 48 hours
straight,
that's pretty suspicious.
Um,
once they get a nice fucking webcam video you'd doing crank set in front of a
computer?
Yeah,
I mean occasionally it comes to that sort of thing.
Like I'm a guy I know was playing 60 tables at once and they're like,
that you're a Bot that a person can't do that.
And so he
did the video of him doing that and he's like,
no,
I'm fucking get this is what it looks like.
What does he have like a bank of screens in front of him?
No,
I think it is.
I think it was just all on one screen.
All the table stacked on top of each other.
So whichever table you have to act on pops to the top and you're just clicking.
It goes to the side and the next one you have to act on pops to the top.
Oh my God.
He was a competitive starcraft player before he came to poker.
[inaudible] speed clicking.
Oh yeah.
And multitasking though.
Starcraft players into amazing,
no,
I don't sane.
I don't know what they're doing.
So a,
it's even more amazing to me yet.
Same every now and then.
I watched those videos and it's nuts.
Dunkin's obsessed with that shit.
He was a silver whatever the fuck that is on starcraft for awhile.
And then he lost his silver standing.
Very,
very upset,
very embarrassed.
But uh,
I would watch him get obsessed with that stuff and he would watch the videos in
his eyes would light up and his pupils would dilate and oh yeah,
those videos are insane.
And it's a huge spectator sport in Korea.
Right?
Huge.
There's like TV stations devoted to just that.
I'm pretty sure.
Yeah.
I need to talk to one of the golf channels,
starcraft,
starcraft dudes.
Apparently it's a very,
very,
very difficult game to that is in a lot of ways very chess.
Like in that sense it's very strategic and but also like almost athletic and the
sort of speed clicking demands.
Well Three d games are very in that sense,
the
hand eye coordination that are involved in playing like games like unreal or
quake or you know,
doom or any of those crazy fast twitch games.
Competitive Gamers who transitioned to poker and are now professional poker
players bottom.
Imagine that people that just have this inclination towards like figuring things
out in a game sense,
they would have that towards a lot of things.
Yeah.
Poker is full of people who were in some other game or a sport before poker.
The pool thing is huge.
It's very,
a lot of pool players go into poker because they can actually make money doing
it as opposed to pool.
It's very difficult to do.
So when you,
um,
you,
you live in Vegas for a little bit baggy hanging out with strippers
and poker players and strippers and poker players and uh,
then so you decide how do you,
how do you go with Malta?
Um,
it's a weird story actually how I ended up in Malta.
I'm originally,
it had a lot to do.
Where is Malta?
It's like right next to Sicily.
Oh Wow.
It's like a couple of hours on the ferry to Sicily.
Hmm.
Okay.
That's where my grandparents were from.
Oh cool.
So yeah,
I'm sorry.
[inaudible] real nearby.
I drink a lot of Sicilian wine.
Neat.
A lot of Sicilian pizza there.
Batman.
The food.
They're supposed to be sensational,
like a seafood supposed to be amazing.
All the local red king prawns and Malta or some of the most delicious things
I've ever eaten.
Wow.
Okay.
So how do you,
what,
what makes you live there?
So the tax things at a gambling on residency thing,
it's easy.
It looked like it was going to be when I started looking into it at the time,
um,
it was basically just mean to pave some relatively small fees for the process.
You need to fill in a bunch of paperwork.
Mainly stuff like demonstrating that you have enough money to support yourself,
that you haven't been convicted of any crimes in the country.
You're coming from basic stuff like that.
And they will give you a permit to stay there as long as you like.
So do you speak Spanish or Italian?
Like what did speak there in Malta,
they speak multi and English.
Malty.
And what does malty it is a Semitic language.
So like closest to Arabic,
Jesus Christ.
But it's a Ritz in like Roman characters.
Like
that finger used
Roman numerals.
No,
not running.
They're like these instead of use the alphabet we use for English and French and
Spanish and Italian.
Wow.
But it's a semantic language,
but it's a Semitic language,
so it's just full of like x's and queues and teaches that you can't pronounce
all.
I needed to go to the post office to pick up a package that had been sent to me
and I don't have a car there,
so I need to take a taxi.
So I get the address of the post office.
I write it down.
It's in a town.
I thought it was called core
me.
It's spelled Q.
O.
R.
M.
I.
I got in the taxi.
I say I need to go to the post office and core me guy looks at me like I've just
told him I need to go to the post office on the moon.
He's never heard of core me.
It's not a big island.
They're like 500,000 people there.
You can drive from one end to the other and then hour it.
Okay,
say it again.
I show it to him on the piece of paper.
He says,
oh army.
Yes,
we can go to army or with the silent Q,
a silent Q or a guest.
Silent cues.
Why use it?
How weird.
What a strange thing.
That whole part of the world is so bizarre because it's like the sort of the,
the echos of the conqueror movements of thousands of
Oh yeah.
And you can really see it in Malta.
I mean it,
it's been conquered by so many people over the years.
Um,
obviously the language is Semitic because at one point it was under more
pressure,
Arabic
control,
which is why that scene from true romance with the Moore's and Sicily.
Yeah.
With,
you know,
where's saying that?
Yeah.
The rates of scene where all the black people that mean this is the reason why
so many Sicilians of dark skin.
Yeah.
Here and a Maltese people look roughly like Lebanese people or something.
Wow.
Pretty dark skinned.
Uh,
they speak a language that sounds a lot like Arabic with an Italian accent
basically.
Did you do like a lot of research before you decided on Malta?
Medium amount?
Uh,
no.
Anybody living there already?
I knew a few people who had been there.
He just fucking move to some strange island.
What happened was,
uh,
the Department of Justice cracked out on the poker sites happened in April,
2011 and a few weeks went by.
Okay,
we're thinking maybe this will all just blow over and everything will be back to
the way it was.
In a month or two it became pretty clear that was not going to be the case by
late May and the world series of poker is about to start in Vegas.
I'm going to be playing a poker tournament every day for six weeks.
Um,
but I'm beginning to plan ahead to what I'm going to do after that so I can get
back to playing online and talking to my girlfriend about where we're going to
move
and the idea of multi comes up and we decided she's going to go there by herself
and check it out while I'm playing the world series.
And she's like,
not really that enthusiastic about this idea at the time.
She was like,
we're gonna go to this little shitty island,
the middle of nowhere.
I don't know about this.
It sounds weird,
but she went over there and ended up loving it.
It's like Malta is great.
Let's go there.
Wow.
Yeah.
It came back just the where the other poker
players go on.
Anybody follow you over there?
Two other guys came with me over there and didn't stay fascinating.
Vagabond lifestyle you guys have.
Yeah,
that's nuts.
Uh,
all my friends who were living in Panorama towers in Vegas are now scattered all
over the world.
So no one stayed in Vegas.
One Dude stayed in Vegas.
One Dude.
Out of how many?
One dude out of my like close group of 10 friends or so,
and a handful more out of the like 50 or 60 who are living in the building,
but isn't it legal now to gamble online on some sites?
If you live in Vegas?
Yes,
there is online poker in Nevada,
but it's Nevada only,
so play against other people in Nevada.
So it was a limited group of people to play with.
You can't play very high stakes.
There aren't a lot of games.
Playing full time from Nevada is not a very appealing proposition.
The Guy who decided to stay is playing mainly and casinos.
Wow.
Now is it,
is there any movement to change this as far as the online laws?
Cause yes.
What year was this all implemented?
You?
Iga passed in 2006 but it's not relieve and clear how much that had to do with
anything that what happened right after the UID passed in 2006 was that some
poker sites voluntarily pulled out of the u s market and that doing transactions
with poker sites became more complicated because it will remember what I was
saying about the you aga.
It didn't change what was illegal.
It was,
it's not like online poker was illegal before that and then it wasn't,
it's not like online poker was clearly illegal the whole time.
Nobody really knows.
It's up to
prosecutors to decide that they want to prosecute a case against an online
gambling site on the basis of the laws that are on the books,
which are pretty vague.
And then courts to decide if it's fair to apply those laws to the case in
question.
So was anybody from the U S it's a poker player,
tried playing online poker from the United States and been prosecuted.
Players don't really get prosecuted,
so it's essentially the site owners.
The sites are the ones that are exposed to legal risk.
So I'll give you just decided to stay in Vegas and start getting,
keep playing online.
What would be the risk?
The sites wouldn't take my business that wouldn't take your business.
What have you went through a proxy.
Then
I might trick them and I might get to play on the site,
but I would be constantly at risk of being caught and confiscated.
If I'm caught,
I might lose all my money.
Yeah.
So,
yeah,
you,
you have to do all sorts of identity masking bullshit to get away with playing
on international poker sites from the u s so what's done to try to change
that
are in some ways it's pretty similar to the marijuana movement in the u s
actually it's happening on a state by state basis.
MMM.
There's probably not going to be a federal bill anytime soon.
They,
there've been some attempts.
Ah,
okay.
But they haven't come very close to passing.
But so far,
Nevada,
New Jersey and Delaware have past online poker bills and you can play in those
three places.
That's it.
So far.
California is at the forefront and is a huge one.
Um,
if California becomes an online poker state,
even if you can only play against other California residents,
it's a big enough state with enough money that that will be a full fledge poker
economy.
Yeah.
20 million people here.
This is a goddamn country.
Yeah.
This is Canada close.
10 is 40.
Is it?
I think so.
I think I looked that up recently.
I think you did too.
I think you're right.
I think we looked it up actually.
Well,
let's find out right now,
population of can I want to say it's 37 population that sounds right.
Yeah.
Right.
I think California is actually higher than 20 to 34 34.8 California or Canada.
Three and 4.8 which is close.
I mean La is 12 or 14 already.
38 California 38 so yeah,
California is a bit bigger than Canada,
so pretty close.
38 and 35 and then those are pretty comparable to like the larger European
countries.
That's like La is 20 million.
At least 20 million.
Yeah.
Wow.
That's what,
uh,
the 20 million came from.
But that's just without Mexicans.
They have no idea how many people really are here.
Right.
It could easily be 30 or 40 there's a lot of people here that are undocumented.
Yeah.
That's the crazy thing.
The actual numbers,
I mean,
I'm sure they probably have some sort of a vague idea,
but unless they're going from neighborhood to neighborhood scanning,
how do they know?
That's the whole idea is that they were here illegally.
There's no documentation.
Yeah.
You,
I guess you could like Nikki gas somehow or another.
Yeah.
You could.
Track indicators of economic activity.
Like how many fucking bags of rice or being held at the supermarket races.
Um,
I don't know if that would work,
but uh,
I mean
track how much food is sold.
Yeah.
In La,
that asked me pretty closely correlated with how many people,
I guess,
well how much cash business do they do?
That's where things get really squirrely because a lot of folks in the illegal
community,
they to work for cash.
They right.
They spend cash on their,
their bills,
cash to the grocery store.
The grocery store has a record of that.
They don't know who spent it,
but they know how much food they're selling.
But it would be racist to check cause you'd have to check those,
those weird markets,
weird Spanish names.
He drive by like you go down van.
Oh and you see those,
you check all the markets.
Yeah,
I guess.
And then just just calculate how many people are buying that food.
Yeah.
Look at you.
You clever bathroom.
He treated it like a goddamn poker game.
So how long have you been in [inaudible]?
Since September of 2011
and any plans on what about like Monaco or and those other places where you can
like this creepy?
Is it Monaco?
Is it creepy?
So much fucking money.
And they're so snobby.
So this is the guy who made 1,000,006 his first year playing poker.
Eh,
those fucking rich assholes.
You'll see a car drive by in the states.
It'll have like a handwritten sign in the window for sale.
$15,000 call this number
in Monaco.
You'll see that only it'll be like the fucking McLaren or something for sale.
1.5 million euro.
She can really sign in the window.
Come on.
I seen that.
And Monica,
but Claren for sale.
Like well,
the little handmade signs.
I don't know shit about cars.
I might be guessing the wrong name,
but yeah.
Well it was really an expense for cars.
Wow,
that sounds crazy.
Why wouldn't they go to a broker?
The taxis,
they're all Cadillacs that much money.
Why wouldn't you go to,
if you have enough money for a fucking Mclaren,
not a,
there's different Mclaren's.
There's,
uh,
there's,
I've talked about this in the podcast before people got upset at me,
but there's this,
so saying that Mclaren's don't sound very good.
And then they said,
what about this sounds awesome.
That's the million dollar Mclaren,
it's a million plus dollar.
Mclaren has this amazing sound to it.
But the regular Mclaren,
that's like I think 200 plus thousand.
It doesn't sound bad.
It just doesn't sound like a Ferrari.
Ferrari's have this
part of the,
the beauty of a Ferrari is the sound.
It makes the pat,
like people underestimate that.
That's one of the reasons why turbo charged cars aren't appealing to a lot of,
um,
real sports cars fanatics because they just don't have the same sound because
yeah,
the forced induction with the air,
it just doesn't,
it doesn't give the same exhaust sound so much so that a lot of turbo,
like some of the new turbo charged cars,
what they're actually doing is they're faking the sound.
So there's a thing called the sound synthesizer.
The use on the BMW m five.
You could turn it off,
praise Allah.
Um,
cause it's really gross.
And when you,
when you have it on,
it's actually pumping sounds like engine sounds through your speakers.
So it uses a sound system of the car to make you think that you're making all
this engine.
Which cars?
The BMW m five,
which is a brilliant automobile,
but they just tacked that on cause it was too
quiet by default.
Well they used to have a v 10 and the V 10 was a monster engine.
It was just a,
an incredible,
incredible engine.
And uh,
it made so much cool noise.
It was just like just fucking throaty deep,
powerful.
Pretty sure it was a v 10.
Hold on a second.
BMW V 10,
like pull it off real quick.
Um,
uh,
W v done.
Um,
and they switched to a turbocharged engine.
Yeah,
yeah.
It was a v 10.
So they switched to a turbocharged engine for the new one.
It has more power,
more torque.
It's faster,
but it just doesn't sound as good.
It just doesn't,
you know,
the one that it,
it used to have this incredible whale to at this like here I'll play it for you
sound like a Ferrari
part of the best.
The delay.
Yeah.
Let me find this fucker.
MMM.
So anyway,
what I was saying about Monaco is that more than any other place I've ever been
in the world,
there's this feeling that you don't belong there and that nobody is happy about
the fact that you turned up.
Nobody's happy about the fact that you turned up like there,
there's one big poker tournament a year in Monaco that I have been to several
times and like
all the hotel staff and cab drivers and everybody else like that that I
interacted with there just seems like surprised and put off.
Then you're there.
There is like some young American dude who doesn't speak French who is in
Monica.
Yeah.
Really?
So it's just a millionaire,
billionaire playboy.
Yeah.
And they want it for the rich French speaking people.
Hmm.
It doesn't like George Clooney lived there or some shit.
Yeah.
I mean
there are a bunch of people who are not French.
He's probably got like chateaus all around the world.
Sure,
sure.
He knows chateau I shot too.
That's sort of BMW with a V 10.
Sounds like the new one series on one.
The new one sounds like a little bitch,
but the new one's a better car to catch 22.
It's like,
what are you going to do if you keep going with these bigger crazy throaty
engine.
So they just eat the gas,
they kill the seals and the Arctic shit
drown the polar bears,
the frozen glaciers and all that good stuff.
What is the,
uh,
the economy like in this multiply?
It's like,
what's a concern with
a lot of it at this point has to do with,
okay.
Foreign companies,
many of them in the online
gaming industry a lot.
Also just in banking and finance and stuff like that.
Is there a tricky laws there or something?
Is that when they move there?
Yeah,
it's uh,
some of the lowest tax rates in the EU.
So like many small countries,
it's like,
you know,
Antigo or um,
saint Kitts are there,
there are a bunch of like island nations near the u s that have carved out a
niche for themselves as tax havens and business friendly economies.
Uh,
Malta has a bit of that going on as well.
So do you have,
do because you maintain your United States citizenship,
do you have to um,
pay taxes there and here as well?
Is that how it works?
Only here,
uh,
if I had become a resident,
like I was planning to,
um,
which I never really finished that story.
Um,
if I'd be home president,
a resident like I was planning to,
yes,
I would owe taxes there.
They have a tax treaty with the U S so I can deduct what I pay there against
what I would,
oh here you don't end up getting double taxed.
MMM.
But since I'm not a resident,
no,
I have no tax liability anywhere in the US.
See.
But if you,
if you do become a residence somewhere else,
you have to give up your residents here,
right?
No,
not always.
I mean in this case,
not at all,
that this isn't becoming a citizen,
this is just becoming a permanent resident.
So I don't get a Maltese passport or anything like that.
I get like a sticker that goes inside my us passport saying that I am a
registered permanent resident.
Yeah.
There's a thing like that with um,
with Mexico.
Yeah.
All our resident visa,
something like that.
You could stay like six months at a time and then you have to go back and forth.
Yeah,
yeah,
yeah.
The,
they're all kinds of visas for every country has their own set of rules and
different rules that apply to citizens of different other countries.
And do you enjoy this,
this living in Malta and doing your online gambling now?
Yeah.
Uh,
it's a pretty decent place to live.
Um,
if I could live anywhere in the world and to keep playing online poker,
there's a decent chance I'd pick somewhere like San Francisco over Malta.
Why San Francisco?
I just really like it there.
I was like getting ready to move to there from Vegas just before the DOJ
crackdown
just because of the atmosphere of the town.
Yes.
Nice place.
Great Place.
Very smart.
Yeah.
One of the smartest cities I think in the country.
It's also like one of the most tech savvy.
There's so much,
so many tech people there.
A lot of complaints though.
The uh,
the folks who,
uh,
were there for a long time are complaining about the real estate prices have
just shot through the roof or regular people can't even afford to live there
anymore.
They can't afford to buy houses.
Cause I've,
I looked at the housing prices in the San Francisco,
it's a predictor,
a $4 million houses like this,
like regular house.
Like how was that a $4 million houses on a $2 million house.
Maybe it was telling a $4 million house.
I have friends who live in Atherton.
Do you know where that is?
No,
it's the richest.
It's one of the richest neighborhoods in the country.
Okay.
It's just outside of San Francisco and it's fucking preposterous.
Like their houses worth $15 million and it's not worth $15 million.
It's just not,
it's just they have a large backyard,
but it means not large if you live in Kansas and Nebraska or anywhere else,
it's just large for this one fucking area where it's just ridiculous.
Real estate.
I mean,
it doesn't make any sense.
Like you look at this,
you're like,
how could you ever pay $15 million for this fucking house?
It doesn't make any sense.
Yeah.
That shits crazy.
It's coming.
All this blackie fucking billionaire Google people live out there.
It's just too much.
Yeah.
I mean it's supply and demand.
People want to live in this one spot.
There's limited space and those people have a whole lot of money.
It drives me crazy though,
that you can't live here.
Not that I love you so much,
but it just drives me crazy that you have to like leave the country to do what
you do for a living because of some fucking goofy laws that were obviously
putting in place by criminals or people that are just shady as,
fuck.
I don't love it.
It's fucking awful.
It's awful.
So if it does change,
will it be like a,
something that's going to happen within the next decade or is it like,
I think so,
yeah.
I mean there's like pokerstars.net.
Do they try to work on that?
Are they?
Yeah.
Uh,
there is a pretty good chance that they will be in the New Jersey market in the
next year or so.
Uh,
cause you need to get regulatory approval.
Um,
and obviously the u s casino interests are trying to keep pokerstars out.
It's not a company owned by a mirror.
There's just send donuts to the Chris Christie Guy's house over and over and
over.
We're going to heal that.
The men donuts and hot dogs and maybe cheese pizza just keeps saying send food
to that guy's house.
He'll say yes,
he loves food.
He loves food probably as much as he loves money and money buys food.
And this is like,
you cut out the middle man,
just send them the food.
He it,
it looks like he's pretty enthusiastic about food.
Yeah.
He's not enthusiastic about Tesla's.
He's won't allow them to direct sell Teslas,
which is just shady as fuck.
I don't,
I don't know about that.
You didn't know about that?
What's the story with that?
I'll Google it.
So I have all the information so I don't fuck anything up.
But uh,
tests La,
New Jersey,
Christie,
he's just gross.
I just,
I,
Christy says Tesla criticism is complete crap.
He's such a fucking slob.
Um,
conservative criticism over his administration's decision to stop Tesla from
selling cars and it's showrooms in New Jersey's complete crap.
The fact is,
we looked away for a year to allow Tesla to do what they were doing and we
couldn't look away any longer.
Look away.
What do you,
what does that mean?
They put,
they had already been selling cars in New Jersey.
They could interpret to stop them from doing that,
but they didn't for a little while and then decided they would,
the company cannot sell their cars from the showroom.
They have two showrooms for the company cannot sell their cars from the
showrooms or
offer the customers test drives.
The Jersey Law on the books since the 1970s requires cars to be sold through the
traditional dealership model.
Okay.
He says,
I don't like the law either.
I didn't vote for it,
I didn't sign it,
but I don't get to just ignore the laws that I don't like.
Hmm.
Okay.
Well that actually makes sense.
Yeah,
so probably was bitten food out when he said though probably had shit flying out
of his teeth.
Somebody sued or whatever and they couldn't ignore it.
No,
maybe.
Yeah,
probably something or someone paid someone off or something like that.
It's just gross.
I just,
I don't understand it.
First of all,
it doesn't make any sense.
Why would you have a,
a law like that in place?
The only reason why a law like that would be in place because someone paid
somebody off.
Does it mean,
I guess in theory the idea is you should need to have a license to sell cars.
Otherwise you might sell people real shitty cars that fall apart and then
disappear and not be accountable for selling people cars that don't work.
I guess they're,
the rule was actually a result of a backroom deal.
Electric car makers chairman charges.
Hmm,
okay.
The Anti Tesla rule,
a new rule that effectively bands direct to consumer car sales.
This is what it's saying in this one article that is in a New jersey.com.
Oh,
this is sounding pretty suspect.
It's for specifically direct to consumer.
So like there has to be a middleman broker.
You have to have a manufacturer who sells to a dealer who sells to consumer and
Tesla was selling manufacturer to consumer and so they had to crack down on
that.
Is that what's going on?
Elon Musk,
the way he said it.
Uh,
he said that if you believe that the law on the books protecting dealers are
there for the good a consumer,
then governor Christie has a bridge closure that he wants to sell you,
which is of course in reference to the scandal where that slob closed down a
bridge for whatever political reason that had nothing to do with safety or the
health and welfare of the citizens is some political pressure.
Uh,
Christie has promised that this would be put to a vote of the elected state
legislature,
which is the appropriate way to change the law.
Musk said when it became apparent that the auto deal or La Brea Oh,
okay.
When it became apparent to the auto dealer lobby,
that this approach would not succeed.
They cut it back room deal with the governor to circumvent the legislative
process and pass a regulation that is fundamentally contrary to the intent of
the law.
Okay.
So he's a bullshit artist,
which makes sense.
Sounds about right.
Yeah,
that makes sense.
So New Jersey,
he's got a bunch of issues.
This is also the same guy who is morbidly obese,
but said that he's going to stop marijuana from being legal in his town than it
won't be legal in his state,
rather on his watch because of the children.
You know,
how about the children looking at you as their leader?
This morbidly obese person that's giving out any health related advice
whatsoever,
you know,
just drives me fucking bananas,
that kind of Shit.
And of course they have,
I don't have anything against fat people being elected to office,
but I do.
Yeah.
Morbidly obese.
I just don't think it's right.
Really?
No.
Oh,
okay.
Around
fucking around.
I mean,
if they're really know if they're really good at their job,
fuck yeah,
there should be,
but he's not good at his job.
It doesn't seem that white frat and he's a hypocrite.
It's just,
well,
I,
you know,
my issue became only with the marijuana thing,
which is marijuana is near and dear to my heart.
It's a fucking fantastic plant.
And I think it aids evolution.
And so I see some non-involved morbidly obese person.
It doesn't care about his health.
And he's trying to push what he's talking about it from a health perspective and
worrying about the children.
Not only that he's citing studies that he doesn't understand non biased studies
that he doesn't understand at all.
Government studies on that stuff for and ignoring shady.
Yeah.
Ignoring all the positive benefits studies that have just time and time again
been pushed aside because of their agenda.
Well,
yeah,
and I mean in my opinion you don't even need
did demonstrate that there's anything positive about it for it to be clear that
it should be legal.
It just from a harm reduction standpoint,
people are gonna smoke weed,
whether or not you tell them it's legal and if you make it illegal then they're
going to have to deal with criminals to do it and they're going to be putting
themselves in danger and there's going to be more crime than the associated
grime that goes with that.
And
not only that,
people are going to be locked up,
which is more harm.
Yeah.
Which is ridiculous.
Blocking people out for nonviolent drug offenses is archaic.
It's stupid.
In fact,
the World Health Organization just recently called for the decriminalization of
all of that.
Yeah.
Fascinating.
Absolutely.
Think it's absolutely the right thing.
It is the right thing.
If you can have drugs and you can't have drugs,
there's goddamn plenty of drugs.
There's a moon God over this a thousand times,
but go to any corner liquor store.
You could drink yourself to death.
You go to any drugstore.
There's a liquor aisle that's filled with enough booze to kill dozens of people.
Oh yeah.
We live in a preposterous Lee hypocritical society.
Is Malta like that?
Can you get good weed and Malta,
was it like,
no,
Malta is pre the repressive on the drug laws.
Really.
It's a Catholic country.
Uh,
those fucks.
So what happens if you get caught with a joint in Malta?
Ah,
def?
Yeah,
potentially a good bit of time in jail.
A joint.
I don't know that the fucked up thing with multidrug laws is that they really
don't draw a lot of distinctions between one drug and the next.
And there's a bit of a growing heroin problem there.
And so there's a bit of a push for harsher drug laws.
Chick crack down on that and there've been a couple cases of
that spilling over into weed and people getting in a lot of trouble for a
relatively small amount of weed.
That kind of makes sense.
That does happen.
A lot of these smaller countries or countries that are just not as
sophisticated.
They turned the lump drugs together and oftentimes they also tend to prosecute
people bakes based on the weight of the plant and they pick up the pot with the
plant.
Like the pot,
like the grows in.
Yeah,
the dirt,
the soil itself,
and they count all that as you're jogging,
you know,
be like if you found someone who had marijuana plants in their house
and you know you weighed everything,
it's like probably a few ounces smokeable marijuana,
but it's like,
yeah,
many dozens of pounds of stuff associated with it.
Yeah,
it's like a sneaky little fucking loophole that prosecutors use.
You know,
it's just gross.
It's just,
it's just when you make you make criminals out of people that are just doing
what they want to do,
that doesn't harm anybody else.
It's just,
it's,
it's a loophole and it just shows you that you have too many laws.
I mean,
that's what it is.
It becomes bureaucracy.
It becomes red tape and it becomes a machine that needs fuel to feed itself and
then yeah,
getting to the point that everyone's a criminal and that they can just pick and
choose who needs to be taken down and sent to jail.
And so that the criminal justice system just becomes a vehicle for
discrimination and oppression because if you interpret the laws to the maximum
stringency were all felons for a million different reasons.
I'm sure the shit you do on the Internet,
so felony a bunch of the shit you own in your house as a felony.
Mike,
have you do both of those?
You're a fucking double criminal.
Yeah.
Smoking Pot and gambling online,
you dirty bastard,
you got to get you up.
That's trading videos that didn't pay for like,
yeah.
Well that's a tricky one,
man.
That's a tricky one because I think that as time goes on it,
it does seem to be changing in making access to legal purchasable versions of
these movies and things seems to be much,
much,
much easier than it used to be a while back.
And you know,
I'm not in favor of putting anyone in jail for downloading things.
Right.
But you're going to have to deal with what is a downloadable copy of something.
I mean,
what is that?
There's a lot of ethical arguments both ways.
I liked the argument that the people that have downloaded things when they,
you know,
start calling him piracy,
they will know it's not piracy because it was piracy.
I would take yours and you wouldn't have it anymore.
It's a copy.
And that's so true.
And this is just,
it's one more example of how people want to use these black and white sort of
definitions of things that exists for physical,
you know,
carbon based,
the hard things that you can put on a scale that you simply can't do when it
comes to digital content.
You just can't,
you can't do,
applying property laws to ideas gets pretty complicated.
Especially ideas where you're not stealing the idea for a profit like you when
you take in so much enjoying the idea without paying for it.
Yeah,
it's weird,
right?
And I'm not saying it's okay to do,
I'm not either.
My Dad's a writer there,
there are professional artists in my family who need to make a living by selling
their art.
And if you can get all the art you want for free,
that's fucking them over.
It is.
But I think that there's room in this country for,
uh,
ethical consideration by the consumer.
So like,
to put it this way,
like I remember when Napster was around,
there was a bunch of people that were downloading things for free off of
Napster.
They were doing the peer to peer thing,
but a lot of people had this sort of really cool ethical consideration where
they would take,
like if they've got something and they liked it,
they would go buy it.
They would say,
Hey,
I owe this guy this fucking album kicks ass.
I'll go buy it.
You know?
And they also would become fans of the band and then they would go see the band
live,
which is even better for the band because then it's more profitable for the band
as opposed to like the record where they get kind of pennies on the dollar,
they would get a much larger chunk,
you know?
So there's,
there's a lot of shit going on,
you know what I mean?
How is it different that you could download music for free?
How is that different in some ways than the radio?
Is it just because it's a better copy because the fucking radio is playing your
music all day long
cause you have to pay for your radio music by listening to the eds in between.
Right,
right.
But to,
aren't you paying for your bandwidth that you use to download it?
I mean it all gets squirrely.
Yeah.
It's all pretty complicated.
My point in bringing that up wasn't that I think it's wrong that there are laws
regulating what you can and can't download without paying for it,
but just that it creates a fucked up situation when the laws are such that if
the government decides to,
they've got a reason to put fucking anyone they want in jail.
Well,
especially now that you're there literally downloading every single voicemail
that you've ever said,
every single email that you send from now till fucking,
who knows when we'll be in some NSA database somewhere and they might go look
through your shit and who knows?
You might have said something completely joking like this,
look,
this poker shit isn't working out so I'm going to start robbing babies and
fucking,
you know,
whatever.
Shooting banks up and take all their money and then they say,
oh,
that's criminal intent and this is a terrorist that
the super fucked up thing that they do is they,
I'm pretty sure this is accurate.
Um,
if I'm spouting conspiracy theory bullshit here,
someone called me out on area,
but I'm pretty sure they find that shit.
They leak the information to the FBI or the local police who then basically
conduct a sham investigation to find the information legally so that they can
use it in court.
But they already know what they're looking for because the NSA got it illegally
and just gave it to them.
Yes,
that's exactly what they do.
Yeah.
So that should be illegal.
That that Shit's insane.
Sneaky as fuck my,
depending on pound what you're doing,
and that's where it gets squirrely.
If it turns out you're involved in trafficking,
human trafficking,
and you know,
selling children to sex slavery.
Yeah,
there's shit that's bad enough that it becomes just difficult question of what
rights you can trample to keep people from doing that.
Yeah.
But there's gotta be a better way.
Just gotta be right.
And also,
if our society was just,
and if all the laws that were in place were in place in order to actual party
actually protect people,
protect people from being victimized by bad people,
but that's not what's going on.
I mean,
it's like,
especially when you come,
when you're dealing with most drug laws,
if there no one's getting victimized by pot,
it's just they're just not,
you know,
they tried to push it for a while that they were,
do you mind when they used to have those commercials where these two fucking no
nonsense guys would be eating dinner and uh,
like the guy would be saying that if you buy drugs,
you support terrorism period.
Right.
And He'd,
Kelly kept eating like to tell you like look like it was like giving you this,
this feeling of authority.
Like it's your dad.
It's side of your fucking stupid nonsense.
They'd been talking with your friends around.
He's like,
no,
listen,
listen.
Period.
End of discussion.
If you buy drugs,
you're supporting terrorism and he's eating the salad.
Something like,
what the fuck is this?
What is this weird psychological message you guys are trying to do?
You remember that day?
You know what I'm talking about?
No,
I'm pretty sure my buddy Dave and as a guy named Jeff who are these mushrooms
and his claws.
Yeah,
well especially with pot.
I mean,
I was buying it directly
from the guys who are growing it.
So there was no terrorism involved there.
Man.
They might a terrorize fertilizer,
pop the top and pour it into the ground.
Let me just so silly.
I mean there is a little truth to that.
Like if you buy cocaine somewhere up the chain,
there are some fucked up people involved in getting cocaine to you.
And you know why?
Because cocaine is illegal.
It's illegal for cocaine was legal.
You'd be buying it from Merck tech curve.
Fucking,
you know,
Glaxo Smith Kline or something like that.
They'd be selling cocaine there.
Of course.
Just ethically,
Hey,
just like Jack Daniels,
they have a commercial for it back then.
Oles have you seen it?
I mean is what he,
yeah,
pull it up.
What's,
let's watch this fucking goofy ass commercial cause this is,
it's quite hilarious how they treat you like you're a fucking monkey.
Let's take a look at this.
Yeah,
this is exactly it.
This is so funny.
Watch this.
It's employing this drug money,
funds terror.
It's employing a manipulation.
Money,
funds,
terror.
I mean,
why should I believe that?
Because it's a fat fat.
So you're saying that I shouldn't believe it because it's true.
That's,
that's your argument and his true.
So the guy in the left,
the first guy is a moron.
The handsome guy and the older gentlemen is like his,
it's the dumbest fucking ad ever because there's nothing being said.
It's two dickheads.
Why is that convincing who?
That was a good idea.
Because people are scared of their dad.
It's convincing for people that are scared of the Dat.
No.
Yeah.
Who's going to fucking see that and go,
I don't want that guy eaten salad to be mad at me so I'm not going to buy drugs.
Like completely ineffective.
Like absolutely 100% of the fact that like not one person watch that ad and
didn't do drugs.
Matter of fact,
I did more drugs because of that ad.
I got mad and I did extra drugs because it's so fucking stupid.
They treat you like you're a moron,
like somehow or another.
That's all you have to say.
Like first of all,
the that was pre internet.
This was like 2001 not pre-internet,
but pre the effect of the Internet and social media.
Social media really changed the whole game.
The way people communicate and the way they understand information.
That was pre social media because you can't have those kinds of arguments.
You just can't.
You can't say cause it's fact.
Fac t o Q can fucking spell fact must be right.
He sold.
Have that guy come over here and sit them down for a podcast for three hours.
I'll dissect that dude.
I'll send him through the fucking vita mix.
Splice them up.
Silly Bitch.
It's ridiculous.
It's a ridiculous way to expressing an opinion.
Yeah,
you,
you know.
First of all,
you can't make an argument about terrorism and drugs
in a 32nd commercial.
It's just physically not possible.
You don't have the really complicated issue.
It is as complex as as biological life itself,
I mean is unbelievably complex.
If you want to break down the root cause of addiction where drugs come from,
what is a drug?
What are the effects?
Why does this one term drug?
Why is it a blanket that we throw over things that save lives,
that enhance cognitive function and productivity,
like caffeine and things that kill you and things that are bad for you and
things that makes life more interesting.
There's all together under this one big blanket called drugs.
So if you're saying if you buy drugs,
you support terrorism.
If you have a cup of coffee after your meal,
I'm going to stab you cause you're a fucking drug user.
Crazy asshole.
You're going to have a whiskey on the rocks like a gentlemen,
you piece of Shit.
He's just like a,
it's madness.
It's like,
and that's all the kind of shit that was available,
you know,
that they or was out there before,
the social media aspect of the Internet made that preposterous.
You could you imagine the Twitter response if somebody tried to put a fucking
video like that,
you know,
Hashtag yes.
All Drugs Hashtag yes.
All drugs would be the fucking,
the parity,
a attack of it.
They're still out there.
They're still putting out,
not like that.
Not that bad.
What is one that you could think of?
Um,
Jamie,
see if you can look up recent anti-drug propaganda commercial because I don't
think they do them anymore.
I really think that there's so idiotic.
If one child went without a school lunch that was funded by the state,
if one teacher got paid one extra dollar,
someone who made that video should get their dick kicked into a fucking meaty
pulp.
Cause it's just,
it's just a waste of money.
It's a waste of taxpayer money.
Not only that,
most of that shit,
when you see that,
remember that talking dog like,
yeah.
Then Z,
a wishy leading new drugs.
That was the one I was about to bring up.
Isn't that pretty recent?
A fairly,
it was on my 2009 comedy special,
so I'm assuming that it was 2007 or eight and it was just mocked mercilessly.
I wish you wouldn't smoke
and miss me friend.
Fucking retarded sponsorship.
That's all made by a partnership for drug free America.
The problem with that of course,
is a partnership for a drug free America has received millions of dollars from
alcohol,
tobacco,
and pharmaceutical companies.
So,
of course,
my joke was that that's like hookers making commercials against strippers.
That's really what it's like.
It's pretty much like alcohol companies making commercials against pot or
pharmaceutical drug commercials making commercials against.
But it's preposterous.
It's just,
it's just idiotic.
Is there more,
is there something recently the foundation for a drug free world.
Oh,
a world filled with,
first of all,
before we talk about this,
if you're interested in any of this stuff,
like really in depth,
I recommend Dr Karl Heart's work.
Dr. Carl Hart,
who has been a podcast guest and what was his name of his book?
You remember his book?
Um,
uh,
here,
I'll pull it up real quick.
Dr. Carl Hart.
Um,
he had a great point and one of his,
a high price high price.
Yeah.
He's brilliant.
Just a brilliant guy.
And he's the socio professor of psychology and Psychiatry at Columbia University
and he,
uh,
is well known for his research and drug use and abuse.
And uh,
his,
his statement is so clear that it's just the best statement.
Not only is they're never going to be a drug free America or drug free world,
you wouldn't want it.
Yeah,
of course you wouldn't like why would you take drugs?
Our technology,
you know the,
the reason they exist is because they're effective has because we have figured
out that there's ways that we can manipulate the way our mind works and the way
our body works,
the way our body feels for good and for bad.
And like all things in life.
Human beings have tools and those tools can be abused or they can be used and
they can use be used for the greater good of mankind.
And that's a drug is just like that.
And it's just like a tool.
Absolutely.
What does it,
the apple commercials,
a bunch of them on this play.
One of these goofy fucking things
and in the United States have tried drugs or alcohol by the time they're 13
years old,
a third of teens have gone to a house party.
Boy There was alcohol,
pot,
cocaine,
ecstasy are prescription drugs.
Over half those kids,
they would today sneak use of an or statement.
They won.
Seven out of 10 teenagers had been offered an illegal drug.
Teenagers whose parents talk to them about drugs are 42% less likely to use
drugs.
Okay,
well that,
that's a good commercial.
I mean that's,
that's,
that's like talk to your kids.
Does that make sense?
That really wasn't bad.
Also,
seven out of 10 kids get offered drugs in high school.
I want to know who those other three are.
Those fucking losers.
No,
he's offering you drugs.
Come on,
man.
Fucking part is you're going to,
you're not getting something.
Yeah.
Don't take pills.
You don't know what they are.
All right.
Don't do heroin.
That shit's addictive.
But the only way we learn all these things is by,
you know,
the ability to freely communicate and express each other.
Express thoughts rather like Portugal has instituted a w s countrywide
decriminalization of all drugs a while ago.
Yeah.
And going great.
The results have been fantastic.
Yeah.
Lower Crime,
lower drug addiction,
you know,
Lord,
cases of HIV infection.
It's just across the board,
across the board.
You know,
you,
you can't suppress people.
You know,
I I know this as a parent,
um,
I try very hard to not suppress my children.
I try to explain to them what's good or bad about doing things,
explained to them the dangers of things.
But give them like I don't,
I don't want to be the boss,
you know,
I just want to be
the person who can tell them things that they don't know yet and do it because I
love them.
But when you,
as soon as you fucking tell people,
cause it's a drug cause defact FH t fact,
I just want to beat you to death.
You fucking dunce shitty propaganda machine walking around with a fucking pair
of glasses,
eating salad,
asshole asshole face just to,
to fucking shitty commercial.
That's my least favorite commercial I think ever.
Cause it's a fact Fsu to fact.
So you're telling me that it's a fact that I'm telling you you're both assholes.
The first guy's an asshole or anything like that cause it's the fact.
Yeah,
your dad.
That's like a dad thing.
That guy is like a dad.
I have a friend who has a dad like that and I know people who have dads like
that.
I can't talk to him cause I'd be like,
you're a dunce.
And that's why your son doesn't accept your thoughts.
You don't even understand this.
You gets away from you.
He mocks you.
Okay,
I gotta go cause I can't have this conversation.
I'll fucking yell at you and your own house.
I wouldn't really,
but,
but that,
that thing,
that fucking Mr no nonsense guy that Mr Known Nancy nonsense guy intimidates
people cause it's tracked FACD fact.
Did you,
anybody fucking spells fact out like that?
You should be able to just spit on them.
Just should be an automatic lock.
The funds,
it seems like the appropriate response pit spit.
It's not assault but clearly too late for an intellectual discussion.
Yeah,
you got to hit him,
hit him with rocks,
fucking pee on his something.
And I've taken this fucking way out of the boundaries of normal thinking.
How's awesome.
But you know,
those,
those kind of commercials are really insidious,
insidious.
And there,
it's the roots of them is what's the most disturbing when you find out this
partnership for a drug free America is just,
it's essentially just a business boy.
Yeah.
The alcohol lobby protecting their market.
I mean it's so weird.
It's so weird.
Especially like,
you know what it would be like,
well that's not gonna be good to know.
I would,
I was saying that it'd be like a really shitty movie that's attacking like a
really awesome movie,
you know,
for,
for being,
you know,
cause they don't want you to go be the cause.
That's what it's like kind of in a way
that no nonsense guys.
It's just that that is something that like for whatever reason,
like even the ineffective way that the first guy communicated the way he fought.
So you're trying to tell me that's what you're trying to tell me.
Like,
Hey,
he's not telling you anything.
You guys both dumb like you guys are idiots.
This conversation sucks and this is the reason why people shouldn't be allowed
to vote you two dummies.
You two dummies having this fucking salad argument.
Weird and Malta worse,
Huh?
In terms of drug laws.
Yeah,
it's pretty bad.
You can end up in jail for a very long time for
not very much to some fucking midnight express type shit.
Right.
You ever see that movie and that express?
It's a movie where the guy,
no movies ever.
It's embarrassing.
Really?
Yeah.
Just playing poker like a madman.
How many hours a day you play poker?
Ah,
not that much.
I mean,
I'd say like I probably averaged 30 to 50 hours a week.
Ah,
okay.
Um,
50 hours a week still like a real workshop.
So it's a real job.
Oh,
and it varies a lot through for,
yes,
it is a lot of suiting.
It's not good for you.
Yeah.
Terrible for you.
Sitting is the new smoking,
have you not heard?
I have heard that phrase a night.
I kind of buy it.
I mean my back is way too fucked up for a 28 year old.
Is it really fucked up?
Do you stretch out or to yoga or anything like that?
I stretch a bit,
but nothing organized.
Not as good as it should be.
Yeah.
You can get some bulging discs that way.
Do a degeneration of discs.
I don't think it's gone that far yet.
But yeah,
I was wearing,
I was using this thing for awhile.
It was pretty cool.
That's a neat thing.
But I decided that I like sitting up straight and this better than I liked
sitting on that thing.
But it doesn't happen.
You know what?
These things are ever see these up here.
I'll put it on.
It's a,
um,
it's like a kneeling chair.
I,
I thought about buying one of those to sit on while playing poker and didn't do
it well.
There's good and bad to it.
It's a,
it's not the most comfortable thing,
but uh,
it definitely forces you to sit up straight.
A buddy of mine had started playing from a treadmill desk.
Really?
So he's on his treadmill while he's a,
it's this like specially designed treadmill desk.
He's like walking real slowly.
It's not strenuous because the studies show if you go more than like two miles
an hour,
it starts impacting your cognitive function.
I was just walking real slowly,
but he's standing up and moving around all day.
That's clubs computer for you.
He's liking it a lot.
I may do that eventually.
Treadmill desk.
What if it gets to like some virtual reality type shit,
some oculus rift poker playing.
That would be kind of dope.
You aware of Oculus rift?
I am not.
You're not.
Oh,
but I have to tell you oculus rift is the newest,
latest,
greatest three d virtual reality helmet that they've created.
Okay.
Um,
my friend Duncan,
who's a big proponent of it,
he loves this shit cause he got a copy of one of the earlier ones.
He let me try it on and it was amazing but it was really pixelated.
It was like quake one like old school video gamey.
Like there's no way you could misinterpret what it is like you,
you know,
it's that really old Nintendo one came out like virtual boy virtual boy.
That's why I thought it was that thing was this red red.
My,
a friend of mine got it and he got hit a headache within 30 minutes.
Some people get headaches.
Brian got a headache from a oculus rift,
but it doesn't give me a headache.
I think maybe it's the same kind of people that get like a boat sickness,
like motion sickness on boats.
Seasick.
Yeah.
It's an inner ear thing apparently.
But I think maybe I'm,
that's a genetic thing.
Like you either get it or you don't get it because my kids don't get it.
But my wife gets it.
It's weird because I think my kids get their robustness from the fucking old
man.
Um,
but um,
uh,
anyway,
this oculus rift,
apparently it's gotten exponentially better and Dunkin called me the other day.
I was at the Improv and he called me up and he was like,
fucking frothy.
He's like,
dude,
what I just saw,
he's going to change everything.
The world is going to change.
This is bigger than the Internet.
It goes,
this is bigger.
This is bigger than the invention of the wheel.
This is bigger than him.
He goes,
it's fucking crazy.
He was fucking frothing at the mouth.
I wish I could see his fucking beady eyes bolting out of his head.
He was so happy and excited.
He went to this three d virtual reality developers conference thing and he said
the newest version of the oculus rift,
which hasn't reached consumers,
I don't think any of them have.
Right.
Just in a low level sense.
You like developers but the newest,
latest,
greatest one,
you go into a room and there's a guy playing piano and the way they filmed it,
apparently they've put cameras all over a person's body.
And so everywhere you look it's like you,
you,
you see it as if the camera like you're looking like there's no,
there's no breakup of the motion.
It's a completely smooth and it's completely HD three dimensional.
Like a movie.
Like,
like,
like you're watching perfect three-dimensional four k video.
Jesus.
Yeah.
And he goes,
you go into this room and there's a guy playing piano when he talks to you and
you get to sit down,
you can like move near him,
you can move around him,
you can go like,
it's all been filmed.
Like you can change where you're going and the video follows you.
And he said,
it's fucking nuts.
I like the sound he said is like three d stereo sound.
The guy playing the beat goes that you feel like you're in a fucking room with
this guy.
He said it just changed.
It changes everything.
He was,
he was going raising.
Yeah,
he was going nuts.
He was going nuts about it.
And based on his original one that I uh,
fucked with,
which was like I said,
very pixelated,
very old school,
like 1990 video gamey type.
It was a still very fucking cool.
Yeah.
And then they have ones now or virtual boy.
It was fun.
Wasn't it?
Will pull up virtual boy.
I've never seen that before.
Never.
Uh,
I'm,
I'm actually in this chair,
this sorta helmet thing on top of a tripod that you lean into and it's just like
red lines on a black background,
if I remember right.
And there are various video games you can play like flight simulators right
here,
virtual boy.
That's what this is what the games looked like.
Basically.
There's very little detail.
Oh God.
It's all red like that.
It was grossly three slide that will pull up.
Um,
uh,
Lewis unbox therapy,
our pal Lewis,
he,
uh,
Lou has a video on that one that they made with an iPhone.
Um,
it's,
it's a cardboard box.
He had it here and take this cardboard box,
you open it up and then put the pieces are in place and then set your iPhone
there and then you put it on your head.
It's got,
it's like so low rent.
And apparently they made it that low rent on perfect on purpose rather to mock
the oculus rift.
Oculus rift is this gigantic,
huge silicone.
And,
and this is,
uh,
he's a
board Vr headset or crazy as a cardboard cutout that uses your phone to create a
headset.
Does that make any sense?
Anyways,
I recently made a reaction video in which I gave this contraption to a number of
individuals who you might recognize and I got some amazing reactions.
So if you haven't seen that video yet,
you should definitely go and check it out.
But this one is dedicated to telling you and showing you how this seemingly
boring piece of cardboard can turn your phone into a state of VR virtual reality
headset.
So it also
is cardboard cutout that you construct into what you see here.
Now you can actually make this on your own using plans via the cardboard
websites.
So you don't need to purchase one of these.
Just get your hands on some cardboard,
use the plans,
and you can make it yourself.
Or you can buy a preconfigured cutout via Amazon.
If you want something that's a little bit more streamlined and closer to a
finished product,
it's about $10.
And I'll link that down in the description.
[inaudible] an interesting,
cut it off
here.
So Lou gets the hits.
It's a,
but it's an unbox therapy on youtube and he's got that.
You could see that as well as the recent video of us shooting the iPhone six
glass with a bow and arrow.
But,
um,
he got a copy a or hold of the newest,
the glass screen,
the iPhone six.
It's a sapphire glass and you can bend it.
Do you get scratch it with keys.
You can.
It's like really super,
super durable.
That sounds like a thing I would have some use for.
This is what my iPhone looks.
Ah,
there it's taken a beating.
Uh,
most of them have.
Um,
but uh,
what you can't do with that we found is shoot an arrow through it.
Did not the flag.
Yeah.
It did not deflect well.
Right through it.
It's a steroid.
It,
yeah.
Arrows and phones don't mix,
but you know,
how often are you going to get shot by a fucking error?
We've got a phone on.
You're probably not often.
Probably if your phone is ruined,
that's not your biggest concern you have for getting shot by arrows.
Your phone is not,
it's the least of your concern.
Yeah.
Better be worried about your fucking personal health.
Shit's going down and being attacked by Mongols or something.
Usually the arrows don't come one at a time.
Yeah.
I don't know how we got on this virtual reality headset thing,
but yeah.
I don't remember where that,
sorry.
Oh,
I remember because I was thinking ergonomics.
Yeah.
To being able to do it.
Sort of like in the oculus world.
Like I think eventually you're going to be able to grab at a virtual table,
physical object,
virtual cards will or,
or virtual screens in front of you,
minority report style and you're moving them around through this oculus rift
headset and you're standing up while you're on this treadmill and you're walking
there.
That's not too far.
Yeah,
I bet it's not,
you know,
um,
the,
I really love this idea of this guy's doing,
of walking really slowly.
You know,
a lot of people claim up writers especially,
um,
claim that they get some of their best ideas while walking.
Yeah.
Like they walk specifically and they hold onto a tape recorder while they're
walking and then they just talk while you're walking the dog or something like
that.
Talking on the tape recorder.
Yeah,
I could see that.
Yeah.
There's something about moving,
like the movement,
like just getting,
not nothing heavy but a little bit of blood flow.
Yup.
But your back's fucked up from sitting,
Huh?
I mean,
it's not terrible,
but I want to try this.
Sure.
We'll try one of these jammies here.
Get this to you.
Take a few seconds ladies.
Gentlemen,
this is a,
a kneeling chair.
I just started doing it recently.
I did it now and I love it.
I'm going to try to do podcasts like this.
Say it again.
End Up.
Do you think there's any benefit in that?
How many podcasts do you think you could do if you had to stand up?
Would,
that'd be good.
So what are you thinking about that does,
this isn't bad.
It's not bad,
right?
The standing up thing,
I've actually been messing around with that a little bit recently.
I started playing poker a using an Xbox controller instead of a mouse.
Really?
And then I don't need to be flat on the desk so I can stand up while I play.
Wow.
That's pretty cool.
Yeah.
You can kind of lie on your back.
What about that was the lying on your back staring up at the ceiling?
Put a screen on the con.
I don't like it.
I feel like I'm less,
I'm like play poker or I'll just on my laptop lying in bed before.
Uh,
I feel like I'm less mentally engaged when I'm lying down.
I think,
uh,
sitting upright or standing or a lot better.
Yeah.
I wonder standing writing.
Cause I think one of the things about being desks are getting pretty popular.
Yeah.
But I wonder if they're getting popular for writers because there's something
about writing.
You don't want to be thinking about what you're doing.
Like you don't want to be thinking about standing.
You just want to be on to get in that flow state.
Yeah.
I wonder.
Hmm.
It seems like it would work though.
Yeah.
I don't see why not dictating would work well.
I could see dictating.
Standing.
Yeah.
Did you walk around on a cell phone or on a phone when you talk and just sure
meander?
Yeah,
whenever I'm on the phone I'm definitely moving around.
Wandering,
dictating.
Software's fucking incredible now.
Just the dictating software that you have on your phone.
The voice recognition software on your phone.
We're really good.
It's amazing.
It's like a,
the,
the
ability to pick it up.
Like,
uh,
you could,
you know,
you could get on these,
um,
these note things on your,
on your phone and just talk into it and it just picks it up incredibly well.
Like,
look,
I'll give you a
hello.
You dirty bitches.
I'm tired of writing,
so I just figured I talk into my phone.
Ps,
fuck you.
Period.
Bam.
Pretty good.
Nailed it.
Absolutely.
Ps Fuck you.
Period.
I'll say we live in the future.
Do you mean put a period or did we have the word period?
No,
period.
If you say period,
uh,
it,
it puts a period of say exclamation point and puts an exclamation point.
But what if you want to use the word period?
That's a very good question.
Is Limited in that regard.
Maybe you see,
say the word period.
What did you say the Jurassic period does it right.
The Jurassic Dot.
Or it's a good question.
Here we go.
Does it have context with Jurassic period?
The Jurassic.
Okay,
hold on.
How about this
period?
The word
The word?
Hmm.
The Jurassic P e R.
I o.
D
can you tell us at the end of the sentence if you say the Jurassic period was a
very exciting time?
Oh,
that's a good question.
The Jurassic period was a time where a lot of dinosaur has got dinosaur pussy
period.
It's fucking confusing.
Confused.
Let me try that again.
Here we go.
The Jurassic period was a time where a lot of dinosaurs got a lot of dinosaur
pussy period.
Yep.
Did it that time can tell you at the end of a sentence,
so that is if you're going to use or you keep going.
Yeah,
it keeps going.
It thinks of it as period,
but if you want to say no,
that happened during the Jurassic period.
Hmm.
I wonder if you can get the intonation just right that it can tell anyway,
or if it's the last word,
it always goes to the dot.
No,
that happened during the Jurassic period.
Period.
Trick.
This bitch
you that worked nice.
Period.
Works.
That's how you do it.
If you want to say period in the middle,
you just keep going.
If you want to see period,
period.
Then you get the word period and a period.
All right,
we've got it figured out.
We got it,
man.
Fucking got it.
That's we live in the future,
ladies and gentlemen.
But sooner later you're going to be able to do
that with your oculus rift and it'll just show it to you on a scroll.
Like some,
like one of those kings scrolls will appear out of thin air.
Um,
how long have you think you're going to do this poker thing?
Zipper for your life?
You're 28 ride this bitch right into the rocks.
I mean,
at some point
I'm not going to be able to compete at the highest level the way I do now that
that just has to be true.
Right?
What age do you think that is?
40 50.
But why would that be?
What would it be?
Do you think?
His brain slow down.
Do they though?
Do they,
do they slow down because of atrophy?
Because of lack of use.
Do they slow down because you're dying?
Like at what age does that has never been a seven year old chess world champion.
Aww.
How old have they gotten?
I think 50s,
50s.
Um,
I think poker is probably similar though.
You can make a living in poker without being one of the best in the world,
so make a living.
Yeah,
yeah,
yeah.
But it's like,
it gets to be a lot less fun at that point.
Yeah.
Right.
You're just kind of a journeyman.
Yeah.
One of those guys that they bring in as an opponent for a boxer and he gets beat
up every time.
Yeah.
Well still a test.
Still a good opponent.
So by then you'll be living in Malta,
you'll be in jail for pot.
You'll be willing to,
won't be able to come back to America or
what's a,
do you have like a strategy like of how many years you want to do this or are
you just like enjoying it right now?
Enjoy it now and it's just so hard to predict what the landscape of poker will
look like.
What making a living in poker will look like 10 years from now.
Yeah.
I would imagine,
especially with the regulations and the laws,
if everybody just opened everything up,
I think it would be quite fascinating.
Yeah.
I'm hoping,
you know,
I,
there was a,
um,
there's an article that I posted recently about uh,
what the death,
the death of politics.
Um,
it was technology and the death of politics and the idea was that data was going
to deny politics.
A lot of what politics is,
is sort of like manipulating data and that the internet and this free access to
information is going to sort of cut out most of the forms of,
of political sense.
Totally makes sense.
I would hope that that would also have a similar effect on things like your
business.
Cause it just,
it frustrates me to no end that you have to live in some fucking weird island in
the middle of nowhere to avoid being locked in a cage.
I have to lock me in a cage.
They're just going to lock the guy who lets me play poker on his site from the u
s and,
and they're going to steal your money and they might steal your money,
steal your fucking money's on.
The Doj likes stealing people's,
yeah,
they do.
They love it.
It's their best thing they do.
They do that better than any of that.
The DEA does it too.
That's what the DEA was doing in California.
It was hilarious.
They would a bus,
these pot shops not charged him with anything,
take all their money and then say the case is pending and so they would just
steal,
you know,
$1 million here.
100,000.
Their bumper bumper,
uh,
happened to a of mine who's a
nother professional poker player,
a professional gambler.
He took a trip to,
I want to say Puerto Rico.
Pretty sure it was Puerto Rico to play blackjack in a casino there.
Um,
he's a new advantage blackjack player of the game.
There was such that he could get an edge counting cards.
So he made a trip there to make some money and he flew back into,
okay,
I want to say it was the Atlanta airport.
Uh,
and he had $80,000 in cash on him and he had all the receipts from,
I sent this bank transfer to the casino because I was going to go gamble there.
I gambled there.
They paid me out this money.
I've got the cash,
I've got all the receipts.
Clear trail of what he did.
He got there,
they said you got a lot of cash,
but kind of like a drug dealer to me.
Mine.
Wow.
It wasn't charged with anything.
They just took his money and what happened?
He
had to take them to court to get it back and he did win,
but it took years and a lot of money and if you don't have a lot of money to
pursue the case and you don't have the wherewithal to navigate the legal system
the way he did and something like that happens to you,
you're just fucked.
Well not only that $80,000 it seems like there could be eaten up pretty quickly
in legal fees.
I think he ended up suing for the fees as well,
so he got paid the money back.
He got paid his costs.
Man,
that's nice.
But still,
I mean interest and all that jazz and you don't always win.
Sometimes you're out the 80 they took from you and 60 more than you spent
chasing it.
I wonder if that could have been prevented if he had legal representation like
as he landed or had it cleared in advance.
You know what I'm saying?
Instead of trying to go and travel around with a lawyer everywhere you own your
professional gambler.
No,
I didn't mean that.
I meant like contact a lawyer and arrange to have everything taken care of as
you get there.
That'd be,
is there a way around that?
Ah,
I mean like if you contacted a lawyer and traveling with cash and declaring it
at the border is a thing professional gamblers deal with all the time to have
you dealt with that before?
Yeah,
and it's no,
no issues.
Almost always no problem.
It's legal to carry money.
If you're carrying more than $10,000 across the border,
you have to fill out a form saying you're doing so,
but you fill out the form.
They say,
why are you,
where'd you get all this money?
What are you doing with it?
And I say,
I'm a professional poker player.
I won it in Vegas and I'm going to deposit in my bank account when I get to
somewhere else or whatever and it's fine.
What's the most cash you've ever traveled with?
Traveled with like head with me on a plane.
I want to say around 70,000 euro.
What's that in dollars.
Not 100,000 damn son.
Walking around with a hundred K and a briefcase with a fucking big chain
attached to your wrist in a bag.
A bag.
Like a gym bag.
That's what you want,
right?
Yeah.
Nike bag conspicuous if you're,
yeah,
moving around.
The one handcuffs,
handcuffs attached to the fucking,
they'll just chop your hand off.
That's what they do.
That's what I heard.
Yeah,
it seems like.
Yeah.
The the arbitrary limit of 10,000 always drove me crazy too.
You covering more than $10,000 in cash,
like,
well,
what's $10,000 to Bill Gates and what's $10,000 to the regular person when
you're reporting requirement?
It's not like you're not allowed to do it if you have more than that.
Yeah.
So if Bill Gates shows up somewhere and he said that,
why do you have $1 billion in cash?
It's like,
cause I'm Bill Gates,
bitch,
I just like to roll around with a billion in my pocket.
Could you even carry $1 billion on you?
What's like the F Zero Thousand Dollar Bill?
What's the like the largest hundred dollars bills in the largest hundreds of the
biggest us bill.
He used to be larger though,
right?
There used to be thousands or maybe even 10 thousands but they were like not in
general circulation.
They were printed for like banks to hold onto and pass between themselves.
See,
um,
the 500 euro note is I think the
largest international largest denomination that's like actually in wide
circulation.
I've read that international crime is mostly done in euro's now because it's a
lot easier to move around cash in 500 euro note if it's giant amounts of it.
That makes sense because a 500 euro note is like 700 US dollars and takes up
same mental space as a u s hundred what is that?
What does that right there?
That's $100,000.
Is that real?
Yeah.
It was a gold certificate only printed once in 1934.
Oh,
okay.
God Damn.
Who's that creepy dude on the crowd with Woodrow Wilson.
Creepy looking fuck.
And he's responsible for some shit.
Guaranteed.
Look in as background,
what is the most money that you ever won in a poker tournament in poker or
playing poker on any,
any event.
And He,
yeah,
the biggest cash I've ever had in a poker tournament was bout $3 million.
Um,
I finished second in a tournament in Australia this year.
That was a $250,000 buy in.
So you had to spend $250,000 to get it.
Well,
second earlier I took on investors to play,
then I didn't put up all the money myself.
So the big,
it was a reentry tournament.
So I busted once on the first day and then bought in again.
So I spent 500,000 on the tournament.
Oh my God.
And he,
but he came in second,
I came in second and ended up making some money.
How much does that pay to come in?
Second.
About 3 million.
I don't actually remember the number off the top of my head.
You could Google it real quick.
It was two point something.
What kind of pressure is there on you?
Once you spent $250,000 then you get shanked and he'd come back and again,
it was a rough week.
It was a series of tournaments.
They're the first one was,
or the first big one I played was the
hundred k that was also re-entry that I was in six times and didn't cash.
So he's an 600 grand and you didn't catch in a day.
Oh my.
And then four days later is the 250 K oh.
I show up for that and bust right away.
You have,
you have major league false on giant huge iron fucking balls.
Wow.
Six Times in a day.
It's a rough day.
Oh my God.
What did he,
how do you sleep that night?
What does that night like?
Um,
you obviously can't do that too many times in a row.
Nobody can.
Right?
Well with that exact one.
MMM.
The reentry period was open until the start of the second day of the tournament.
So after the first day I was getting blood bath and down,
done the money and still had to come back the next day and play for real.
Wow.
And came back and got knocked out for the sixth time on the first hand of the
second day.
She's,
that's Christ son.
So then after that it was a lot of Australian Shiraz and a long,
long sleep and then a couple of days off and then the two 50 k
wow.
That's crazy.
That's digging into the account there,
Huh?
Fuck.
Do some damage.
So when you look at like losses like that and wins,
does that make you play more conservatively and upcoming events or do you just
have to play intelligently period and just take the losses when they come?
Um,
the place where you get more conservative is your bankroll management rather
than your play.
The play from one hand to the next is really about,
you have to put the magnitude of the numbers out of your head and try to make
the best play each time it's on you to make a decision.
So are you in the moment,
are you zen or are you still thinking about that $600,000 a year?
Pretty good at just getting myself into the moment.
Um,
the,
the place where you get more conservative is you lose for awhile.
You have less money than you did before that period started.
You reevaluate,
I have only 75% of the money I did a few months ago.
Should I maybe sell
75% of my action in this upcoming tournament instead of 50.
Right.
I say,
oh,
that,
that's the way in which you can get more conservative if you're going through
losing stretch is play for lower stage.
What's the biggest losing stretch you've ever gone through?
MMM,
in dollar amount period mounts.
Uh,
let's see.
Yeah,
I'll give you ever gone through like a couple million dollars in a weekend.
MMM.
In Games where I didn't,
where I had told action,
didn't have all of myself.
Yeah,
I've lost,
I guess my losing
couple of days was on the order of
50 million Hong Kong,
Hong Kong dollars,
which are bigger or let let let last rather.
So only like 6 million years.
My God signed only 6 million u s dollars and personally I had a small share of
that so I didn't personally lose $6 million.
What's a small share?
1 million.
2 million.
What's the small share?
10% ish.
Okay.
600 grand
still.
That's a lot of fucking money.
Yeah.
It's doesn't feel good.
Wow.
Of course a bunch of my friends lost a shit load of money too and I have to send
out the email.
Hey guys didn't go real well.
Fuck that.
That's the worst part of it for sure is the hey guys didn't go real well.
Sure.
Cause everybody's like planning on making a like a profit based on your success
in the past.
Yeah.
So it's rare that you hit these dark spots.
What do you attribute them to?
Is it just luck?
Is it,
is it not
that rare?
Like any given day that I play poker,
I might be,
if I'm playing cash,
games may be like a 52% favorite to have a winning day,
maybe less than that.
Uh,
if I'm playing a tournament,
I'm a favorite and have a losing day because uh,
tournament they pay about 10% top 10% of the field.
So if they're paying top 10% of the field are really good player caches,
15 18% of the time.
That seems incredibly stressful.
It's very stressful.
Is it?
What,
how do you feel like,
like about this,
like as a,
as a human being trying to make a living in this incredibly,
it feels like you're navigating a minefield.
MMM.
Yeah.
It,
you've been,
obviously you've been very successful with this.
You've turned a very nice profit.
You do very well.
But the amount of stress that on your 28 year old body,
I mean not just your back,
but your mind,
you're like racing and battling these numbers.
You know,
you're talking millions of dollars back and forth and down and up.
And what does that do you do something to mitigate that?
I like to meditate every day.
What kind of meditation?
Odd.
Just breath focused.
Um,
basically just sit quietly for anywhere from 10 to 30 minutes and attend to my
breathing.
Just concentrate on breathing in and breathing out and just trying to stay calm
and,
and sometimes I'll do an exercise on top of that where I'll track the thoughts
that enter my mind and label them as thoughts about the future or thoughts about
the past.
And that what that exercise does is helps you,
helps to bring you into the present moment.
MMM.
And to see that,
uh,
it's difficult to have
thoughts about the present moment.
You,
you just have sensations and feelings and experiences of the present moment and
the thoughts that you build on top of that are almost all about the future or
about the past.
And observing that process is really good for bringing you into the present
moment.
And that that's great for poker because all the shit that stresses you out when
you're playing in dealing with these big swings is thinking about the past and
thinking about the future.
Thinking I'm down this much in the last couple of days.
That's real fucking bad.
What am I going to do?
Or I'm going to win all this money and then I'm going to buy a fucking yacht and
sail off into the sunset.
And both of those are things you can think that take you out at the moment of
all right.
He just bet,
okay,
what do I think he has?
What's the right place?
So in that sense,
uh,
poker is a lot like life.
Like,
Oh yeah.
I think key to life is to be present.
It's great training for living your life mindfully and
rationally and effectively.
Have you ever done any treatments or a sessions in the isolation tank?
I have an I really want to.
Why don't you get one you're making banks on.
If I'm traveling around on them time,
it's a multiple how to get something shipped.
Them all.
I can't fucking figure out how to get them to send me a desk chair.
Malta.
I guarantee you somewhere in Europe this,
they have a sensory deprivation.
They have a couple of adults.
I looked it up.
I didn't get around to go into one,
but it's across the whole island.
No,
it's right fucking there.
I'm just so it's there of Lazy Jesus Christ.
If you do it once,
you're going to realize what amazing tool it is.
You don't want to do it all the time.
I'm really close to doing it once with JC in La.
Several years ago we got in the cab and we went to the place and we got there
and it was closed.
Well,
there's a place that's in Venice while you're here,
the float lab there,
the pressure.
That's where I tried to go.
Uh,
I mean JC took me there,
so it's amazing.
So they,
they're the best place to the best place in California for sure.
I should check that out for sure.
Yeah.
Well I'll try to see if I can hook it up once you get out of here.
Cool.
We're,
we're out of time.
Man,
we're going to turn into a pumpkin.
Oh,
sorry.
We're three hours then.
That was three hours and not credible.
That flew by.
Yeah.
Follow Ike on Twitter.
It's Ike poker I k e poker on Twitter.
Um,
anything else?
Uh,
pokerstars.
Dot Net your sponsor.
Real quick,
I want to plug my dad's book.
Brooke Saxton is a writer and just published a book called fading hearts on the
river,
that sort of a family memoir that tracks my poker career and all the other
interesting shit that's gone on in the accident plan over the last several
generations.
It's a great read,
like a cool family stories and also interesting meditations on game playing and
the meaning of games and how they function in our lives.
Excellent.
And what's it called again?
One more time.
Fading hearts on the river and I'm pretty sure you can get it on audible.
I think there's an audio book version as well.
Glorious.
Uh,
and that brings us to our sponsors,
audible,
audible.com.
Thank you to audible.
Go to audible.com forward slash Joe get a free audio book and up to 30 free days
of audible service.
And if you want to get Ice Dad's book,
it is fading hearts on the river by Brooke Saxton.
Write it down,
bitches.
I know your memory sucks.
Um,
thanks.
Also to tango to rogan.ting.com and save $25 off of any of their brand new
android devices or the apple iPhone as well.
Um,
thanks also to onnit.com go to [inaudible] and it used the codeword Rogan and
save 10% off any and all settlements.
That's it for this week.
You dirty fucks.
We'll be back next week.
Until then,
much love.
We'll see you Friday night at the San Jose Performing Center for the good of my
website,
Joe rogan.net.
All the details of it.
I don't remember shit much love Sia big kiss.
Wow.